actr-100	This is a workshop course designed to introduce students to the art of the actor, with a focus on physical work, vocal work, textual analysis, and developing the students' awareness of practical acting tools and techniques. Students will apply approaches and techniques taught in class to a variety of situations and exercises, including written assignments, monologues and scene work.	1.99
actr-101	This is a workshop course for intermediate students. It focuses on the theory and practice of improvisational acting. After an introduction to the fundamental principles of narrative structure and spontaneity, the student explores masks and improvisation as a tool to develop scripted theatre.	2.01
actr-200	An intermediate scene study course focusing on text analysis and the performance of scenes and very short one-act plays.	2.02
actr-201	A scene study course which explores style in classical and contemporary plays. Scene study will emphasize acting styles in groups of representative plays. Topics, set by the department, will vary each term.	2.3
actr-304	This course will broaden the areas of expertise for Theatre department students in performance skills and workshops may include: Stage Combat, Acting is a Business, Advanced scene work, Voice Over and Animation, Physical Conditioning, Performance Methodologies, Audition Skills, Dance Partnering, Text and Music in Auditioning, and/or Embodied Acting and Movement work.	2.46
actr-305	This course further develops the areas of expertise for Theatre department students in additional performance skills specialties and may be selected from the following topics: Stage Combat, Acting is a Business, Advanced Acting and/or Audition Skills, Lifts and Partner Dance, Text and/or Music in Auditioning, Improvisation into Text and Character Work, and/or Embodied Acting and Movement work.	2.57
asas-105	First year students will participate in physical and vocal training that supports performance by enabling them to improve alignment, physical awareness, breath support and embodiment of their work on stage and on camera.	1.91
asas-110	This is a workshop course in the art of the film actor, focusing on text analysis, naturalistic playing and awareness of the actors' own resources. The student will rehearse and perform monologues and scenes, applying approaches and techniques taught in class.	1.87
asas-114	An introduction to the professional world of the stage and screen actor. Some filmed scenes and/or monologues are part of this course.	2.04
asas-115	This course is designed to allow further exploration of voice training for the stage and screen. Students will strengthen the range of their voices through training and performance. Skills are evaluated in tests, presentation and performance projects.	2.04
asas-116	This course covers movement training for the stage and screen. Students will participate in and learn: movement exercises, somatic practices and physical performance skills as well as how to create compositions, performances and devised projects.	1.86
asas-120	This course will survey the history of theatre, from its origins in Classical Greece through to the early modern era. Highlighted theatrical developments will be explored in the context of historical, political, social, and/or cultural themes.	1.95
asas-161	This is a practical course focused on continuing the development of students' skills in the art of acting and collaboration. Students will work with peers, who may include classmates, playwriting students and ASAS 261 students. Course projects will include scene work, dramaturgy, and a final performance project.	1.87
asas-162	In this course, ASAS students will explore screen projects in front of and behind the camera. Content creation and collaboration will also be a part of this course.	1.83
asas-190	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew must register in this course.	1.93
asas-191	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew must register in this course.	1.84
asas-192	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew must register in this course.	2.04
asas-193	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew must register in this course.	1.83
asas-194	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew must register in this course.	1.95
asas-195	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew must register in this course.	1.87
asas-208	This course acknowledges the theatre skills which are learned during rehearsals and practical work on productions. Students in the Acting for Stage and Screen program will take part in a bare bones production of a play, which will be performed in the Arbutus Studio at the end of term.	2.07
asas-210	This is an intermediate workshop course for the screen actor. Filmed scene work and monologues will comprise the practical aspect of the course. Students are expected to explore text analysis and provide a written analysis of their methodology at the end of the term. Students will improve their concentration and camera awareness. Script interpretation emphasizes personal technique, and classes simulate the atmosphere of a film or television shoot.	2.14
asas-214	This course is designed to expose intermediate actors to the specific demands of the industry and prepare them for marketing their skills in the competitive world of theatre, film and television acting.	2.01
asas-215	Students will continue to strengthen their voices through intensive training and exercise. An intermediate regimen of training will be introduced and reinforced throughout this term.	2.01
asas-216	Students will continue to strengthen their physical awareness through intensive training and exercise.  An intermediate regimen of training will be introduced and reinforced throughout this term.	2.27
asas-218	This is a course designed to expand the musical abilities of the stage and screen actor. Students will learn songs and perform them in Master Class format in order to improve their skills as singer/actors. They will learn the basics of reading music as well as sing in harmony in ensemble numbers.	2.06
asas-219	This is a course designed to expand the movement abilities of the stage and screen actor. Students will perform ensemble choreography in a classroom setting and increase their skills in several styles of dance.	2.0
asas-220	This course will explore a variety of major developments in theatre history, from the early modern era, into the 20th century. Highlighted theatrical developments will be explored in the context of historical, political, social, and/or cultural themes. This course is a follow-up to ASAS 120.	2.14
asas-225	This course is designed to train students in the vocal skills required for performance work on the stage or in front of the camera. Students will identify and learn to address their individual needs through collaborative, studio-based practice. Physical awareness, embodiment and reflection are key factors to enable students to experience freedom of expression and the unconscious habits that inhibit it.	2.17
asas-226	This is a more advanced course in movement for the stage and screen actor. Through intensive training and exercise, students will gain strength and physical awareness. A more advanced regimen of movement exercises will be created this term.	2.28
asas-260	This course examines the methods that directors and designers use to interpret script and prepare for stage production. This includes important topics such as play analysis, responsibilities, creative vision, and principles of staging, casting and leadership.	2.04
asas-261	This is a practical course focused on continuing the development of students' skills in the art of directing, as introduced in ASAS 260, and collaboration. The course will focus on various skills, including text analysis, dramaturgy, and leadership. Course projects will emphasize collaboration and may include small collective creations to final performance projects.	2.18
asas-262	Intermediate ASAS students will take leadership positions in both the cast, crew, writing and production areas of screen projects. Content creation and collaboration will also be a part of this course. Students will work on more advanced scripts and projects, and create a demo reel of their work.	2.22
asas-290	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the Department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production film or who are assigned to a production crew, and who have three credits in the THTR/ASAS series, must register in this course.	2.18
asas-291	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the Department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew, and who have three credits in the THTR 190/ASAS 190 series, must register in this course.	2.01
asas-292	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the Department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production or who are assigned to a production crew, and who have three credits in the THTR 190 or ASAS 190 series, must register in this course.	2.04
asas-293	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the Department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew, and who have three credits in the THTR 190/ASAS 190 series, must register in this course.	2.25
asas-294	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the Department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew, and who have three credits in the THTR 190/ASAS 190 series, must register in this course.	2.24
asas-295	Students receive credit for intensive practical work on productions. The nature of the work and the amount of credit will be determined by the Department in consultation with the student. All who are cast in a department production, film or who are assigned to a production crew, and who have three credits in the THTR 190/ASAS 190 series, must register in this course.	2.08
asas-302	This course prepares students for their final graduation showcase. The final live performance and filmed monologues will provide students with the opportunity to meet industry professionals as well as be seen on Casting Workbook.	2.56
asas-321	Taught in conjunction with FILM 321, the conceptual approach is designed to help Acting for Stage and Screen students understand their craft in the context of such categories as genre, body of work, and artistic movements. Special attention will be paid to playwrights and stage directors whose work has impacted contemporary theatre.	2.42
asas-328	This course acknowledges the acting skills which are learned during rehearsals and practical work on productions and in film work. Students in the Acting for Stage and Screen program will take part in fully realized stage productions and/or in film projects produced through the FILM centre.	2.41
asas-329	This course acknowledges the acting skills which are learned during rehearsals and practical work on theatre productions.  Students will take part in a fully realized stage production.	2.58
asas-340	The Actor's Kit is a course designed to prepare students for the stage and screen industry. Acting for Stage and Screen students will produce a series of monologues which are performance ready. Credit for this course is based on successful completion of the monologue kit.	2.69
asas-341	This course is an intensive, advanced course in acting techniques. Students will learn how to face the technical, personal and professional challenges of developing a successful career in the competitive world of acting in film and television.	2.63
asas-362	This course will enable the advanced ASAS student to gain an understanding of creating a performance character that can be used for content creation. Gain an understanding of the production of screen content, and the requirements of the self-tape.	2.63
asas-370	Students will learn the business of being an actor, from resume building, to union involvement and contracts.	2.51
asas-390	Upon successful completion of this course, students will improve upon and demonstrate their mastery of the performance aspect of either a film shoot or play production through intensive, practical experience.	2.55
asas-391	Upon successful completion of this course, students will improve upon and demonstrate their mastery of the performance aspect of either a film shoot or play production through intensive, practical experience.	2.48
asas-392	Upon successful completion of this course, students will improve upon and demonstrate their mastery of the performance aspect of either a film shoot or play production through intensive, practical experience.	2.42
bbio-036	This course is an introduction to the chemistry and composition of living things. Topics studied include: the organization and functions of cells, the digestive, respiratory, circulatory, nervous, skeletal and muscular systems, and human nutrition. Laboratory investigations are included.	3.36
bbio-043	Topics include cell structure and function, cell division, evolution, plant physiology.  Laboratory exercises are included.	3.12
bbio-044	Topics include diversity and life histories of microbes, plants and animals, behavioural ecology, biosphere, ecosystems, and human population concerns.  Laboratory exercises and field trips are included.  BBIO 043 and 044 together prepare students for many career/vocational programs.	3.29
bbio-053	Topics include cell structure and function, cell division, cell metabolism, genetics, and DNA.	2.97
bbio-054	Topics include tissues and organ systems, homeostasis, circulation, immunity, digestion, respiration, excretion and reproduction. Includes laboratory investigations.  BBIO 053 and 054 together prepare students for many health-related programs and college level post-secondary programs for which Biology 12 is a prerequisite.	3.41
bchm-036	This is an intermediate course in chemistry.  Students will be introduced to intermolecular forces of attractions, the organization of the periodic table, categorize a compound as ionic or covalent, and write the formulas of simple compounds.	3.05
bchm-043	Students will learn principles and methods of chemistry including atomic structure, periodic trends, writing formulas, and determining the names of both inorganic and organic formulas.  Reaction types and the relation of chemistry to society will be covered.  Includes laboratory investigations.	3.1
bchm-044	This is a continuation of BCHM 043.  Students will use the mole concept to solve quantitative problems, learn some applications of the gas laws, prepare and dilute solutions.  Properties of acids and bases including pH will be investigated.  Includes laboratory investigations.	3.03
bchm-053	Students will learn principles and methods of chemistry including organic nomenclature, thermochemistry, chemical reaction rates, oxidation-reduction, and some applications of electrochemistry.  Includes laboratory investigations.	3.02
bchm-054	This is a continuation of BCHM 053.  Students will explore the concepts of chemical equilibrium, solutions and solubility, chemistry of weak acids and bases, neutralization.	3.28
bcmp-021	A self-paced credit course introducing word processing and the use of the Internet.	2.87
bcmp-031	A paced credit course offering an introduction to commonly used business software such as word processing, spreadsheets and the Internet. Also included is an introduction to Windows disk and file management.	3.48
bcmp-041	A paced graded course offering both an introduction to commonly used business software and essential computer concepts and terminology. Software used includes: word processing, spreadsheets, graphics, Windows, and the Internet. Computer concepts include examination of: processors, storage devices, input/output devices, computer communications, security, ethics, ergonomics, and purchasing considerations.	3.3
bcmp-051	A paced graded course offering an introduction to fundamentals of the Internet. The major focus is web page authoring. Other topics include: e-mail, discussion groups, and Web search engines.	3.07
bcmp-052	A paced graded course offering an introduction to computer programming. Students will analyse problems, design solutions, develop programs, test, de-bug and document the software they write.	2.93
bcmp-053	In this course, students learn to utilize common cloud-based applications such as: word processing, spreadsheets, presentations, online collaboration, photo-editing, online storage and backup.  These are the most common applications students would utilize in the workplace or in support of their other university classes.  Additional topics include: electronic contact, time and calendar management, anti-virus and anti-malware protection, and cross-platform (PC, Mac, tablet, smartphone) inter-operability.	3.32
beng-011	A course in basic reading and writing.  Students focus on the composition of words and basic sentences.	3.19
beng-021	An introductory fundamental course in reading and in writing of sentences and short paragraphs.	2.9
beng-031	An intermediate course in writing. Most ABE students enter the English program at this level. Students write a series of paragraphs and two longer compositions.	3.14
beng-040	A short-report writing course with a vocational/technical emphasis in its subject matter and approaches to writing. Students develop the summarizing, note-taking, and outlining skills necessary to organize information from a variety of sources into well-written reports.	3.02
beng-041	An advanced course in short-report writing. Students develop the summarizing, note-taking, and outlining skills necessary to organize information from a variety of sources into well-written reports. BENG 041 has a technical/academic emphasis in its subject matter and approaches to writing and includes introductory work in literary analysis and evaluation for students proceeding to BENG 052.	3.27
beng-043	This course is an Advanced Level English course focusing on summarizing and report writing. This course develops the rhetorical and organizational strategies needed to write paragraphs and construct academic arguments in essay form.	2.98
beng-044	This course is an Advanced Level English course that focuses on summarizing and report writing, and introduces students to literary analysis. This course develops the rhetorical and organizational strategies needed to write paragraphs and construct academic arguments in essay form.	3.15
beng-052	A provincial level course in essay writing. Students study and write a variety of essays to prepare for written work at the university transfer level or equivalent in diploma programs. BENG 052 has an academic/literary emphasis in its subject matter and approaches to writing.	3.36
beng-053	This course is a Provincial Level English course focusing on academic writing, foundational post-secondary research skills, and research essay writing. The course aims to develop the reasoning, research, and synthesizing skills needed to succeed in a post-secondary environment.	2.84
beng-054	This course is a Provincial Level English course focusing on reading, research, academic analysis, and academic essay writing. The course aims to develop the reasoning, research, and synthesizing skills needed to succeed in a post-secondary environment.	2.89
bfps-052	This course is a study of First Peoples' culture and history with a focus on the local First Nation. Through lecture, field trips, guest speakers, assignments and projects, students will practice research and social analysis skills while learning about First Peoples' culture and history.	3.01
benf-001	A course in basic reading and writing. Students focus on the composition of sounds, words and basic sentences.	3.06
benf-002	A course in basic reading and writing.  Students focus on increasing their knowledge and ability to read words and develop basic sentence skills.	2.81
benf-003	A course in basic reading and writing.  Students focus on increasing their knowledge and ability to read words, develop basic sentence skills including punctuation.	2.82
benf-004	A course in basic reading and writing. Students focus on listening, reading and writing for a variety of purposes with the introduction of critical thinking skills.	3.11
benf-005	A course in basic reading and writing.  Students focus on reading using literary and information texts along with writing longer passages, using a variety of writing processes.	3.19
benf-006	A basic course in reading and writing.  Students focus on reading novels and short stories using a variety of strategies along with writing longer, detailed paragraphs.	3.06
bmaf-001	This is a course in basic mathematics.  Students will focus on place value and counting to 100, add or subtract whole numbers to 20 without carrying or borrowing, and explain simple geometric shapes.	3.09
bmaf-002	This is a course in basic mathematics.  Students will focus on place value to 1,000,000, add whole numbers with carrying or subtract whole numbers with borrowing, know multiplication facts to 100, convert time notation.  They will be able to explain and calculate the perimeter of simple geometric shapes.	3.38
bmaf-003	This is a course in basic mathematics.  Students will focus on the division of whole numbers, the metric system, and be able to explain and calculate the area of simple geometric shapes.	2.96
bmaf-004	This is a course in basic mathematics.  Students will focus on calculations involving decimal fractions, conversion of measurements within the metric system, and will be able to calculate the perimeter and area of simple geometric shapes with decimal fractions.	2.81
bmaf-005	This is a course in basic mathematics.  Students will focus on calculations involving common fractions, convert fractions to decimals, convert decimals to fractions, convert measurements within the metric system, and calculate the perimeter and area of simple geometric shapes using formulas.	3.22
bmaf-006	This is a course in basic mathematics.  Students will focus on calculations involving ratio and proportion, solve various problems involving percent, calculate sales tax, percent wage increase and discounts on purchases.	3.05
bgeo-052	A study of interactions between the people of B.C. and their geographic environment. Students will discover the diverse regions of B.C. and the set of geographic and human attributes that make each region distinct. Students will assess the success of people's adaptations to their geographic environment, with a focus on mutual sustainability of land, air, water, living and earth resources, and human populations.	3.4
bhst-052	A survey of 20th century history, including major issues in present day geopolitics.	3.22
bmth-011	A course in basic addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of whole numbers and decimals.	3.17
bmth-021	Whole numbers, fractions, decimals, ratio and proportion, percent, powers and roots, averages and graphs. This course is designed to prepare students for an intermediate course in mathematics.	3.42
bmth-033	This course covers properties of the Real number system.  It is an introduction to algebra, basic operations with algebraic expressions, equations in one variable, inequalities and problem solving.  This is the first of the two courses required to complete an ABE Intermediate level in mathematics.	3.46
bmth-034	This course covers measurement of perimeter, area and volume; theorem of Pythagoras, right angle trigonometry; systems of equations in two variables; graphing linear relations; slope, intercepts. This is the second of the two courses required to complete ABE Intermediate level in mathematics.	3.23
bmth-041	This course covers the use and interpretation of formulas and principals used in Canadian business and commerce, solving problems of business or commerce such as computing interest, payroll, taxes and amortization.	3.37
bmth-043	This course covers radical equations, exponent laws, polynomials and rational expressions, factoring, complex fractions, quadratic equations.	3.49
bmth-044	This course covers functions and relations, quadratic functions, maxima and minima, transformations of relations, tangent theorems, trigonometry, right triangles, functions of angles in standard position, Sine and Cosine laws.	2.99
bmth-047	In this course students will investigate problem solving, inductive and deductive reasoning and proof and pattern recognition.  In addition, students will explore graphing and slope, rate problems, spatial reasoning, proportion and scaling. This course will use trigonometry, including the sine and cosine law to solve problems involving lines, angles and triangles.	2.91
bmth-048	In this course students will explore elements of statistics such as normal curve, standard deviation, z-test, confidence intervals and applications of statistics.  Systems of linear inequalities will be solved graphically.  Students will investigate quadratic functions including graphs of parabolas, vertex, intercepts, roots and axis of symmetry.	3.17
bmth-053	This course covers functions, graphs, transformations, exponential and logarithmic functions.	2.84
bmth-054	This course covers circular functions, trigonometric identities and equations; polynomial and rational functions.	3.17
bphy-036	This is an intermediate course in physics.  Students will solve problems using System International (SI) units and will convert between units of the same dimension, employ the concept of force and the use of free body diagrams to determine if an object has an unbalanced force acting upon it, and solve problems involving motion.	3.18
bphy-043	Students will learn the safe use and limitations of basic laboratory equipment.  The concepts of forces, momentum and energy will be explored.  Motion in two dimensions will be studied.  Includes laboratory investigations.	3.37
bphy-044	This is a continuation of BPHY 043.  Students will explore concepts in electrostatics, analysis of electrical circuits, waves and sound, optics and thermodynamics.	3.18
bphy-053	The study of motion in two and three dimensions.  Students explore the concepts of force, momentum and energy in more detail than in BPHY 043.  Includes laboratory investigations.	3.1
bphy-054	Students will explore the concepts of electric field, circuit analysis, magnetic field, waves and optics.  Includes laboratory investigations.	3.0
bpsy-051	This course is a combination of sociological and psychological theory, research and practice.  It is for students wishing to enter the field of health, human service work, and early childhood education, or who wish to go on to more advanced sociology and/or psychology courses.  Topics include psychological and sociological theory, individual and group behaviour, interpersonal communications and relationships, adult development, and abnormal behaviours.	3.24
bsci-021	An introduction to the basic scientific concepts and language of general science.	3.43
bsoc-031	An introduction to the fundamental principles of economics.  Canadian history, government legal system and the development of analytical and interpretive skills.	3.43
bsoc-041	A study of economic, political, and social issues in Canada. Students will learn basic skills of social analysis that will enhance their ability to participate in decisions and policies that affect their economic, political and social interests.	2.93
advr-130	This course begins with the analysis of a client brief and the development of a creative brief for the advertising of a product, service and event.  The course introduces aspects of marketing strategies for conceptual development.  It provides students with an understanding about how to use the creative brief to customize the right media plan for the right client and the right target audience.  It also covers an introduction of resources available to media planners and buyers, as well as effective media plan executions based on data gathered.	1.86
advr-133	This course focuses on the conceptual process used in the advertising industry.  This course covers interpretation of the creative brief for the development of a multi-media campaign.  The emphasis is on creating umbrella concepts and creative strategies that meet client objectives.	1.92
advr-135	This course covers the origins of advertising and the art of persuasion in America beginning in the 1950s. It introduces the what, when, where, why and who in the industry past and present.  It includes a survey of notable advertising agencies, their philosophies and project milestones.  It provides an overview of the parameters of effective visual communication, contexts and the human factor.	1.91
advr-137	This course focuses on the advertising agency process.  This course also introduces the fundamentals of collaboration within an agency.  It further explores the role of the art director in the creation and execution of advertising concepts.	1.98
advr-139	Branding concentrates on the principles and power of the brand.  This course defines what a brand is and explores the regional and global impact it has on modern society.  This course also covers the analysis of brand strategies, brand essence and brand communication.	2.1
anim-010	This course is an introduction to the procedures used to create animated characters with life, weight and personality. Students will learn how to create movement frame-by-frame, using drawings and objects.	3.27
anim-020	Students will be introduced to design as it applies to commercial animation production. This will include: basic perspective skills; character design; posing; layout design; colour design and storyboard design.	2.92
anim-030	Students will learn how to improve their drawing skills through observation and practice. Gesture drawing from the model will be emphasized in this course with the focus on quick sketches that capture the form and weight of the model. Basic anatomy will be introduced and students will maintain a weekly sketchbook of drawings.	3.3
anim-040	This course will introduce the student to computer-generated animation and the tools used to create 2-D character animation digitally. Students will learn to apply the traditional principles of animation to digital characters.	3.23
anim-103	Students will be introduced to the importance of design in character animation. Line, shape, negative space, volume, and colour will be studied. The relationships of these elements (proximity, balance, rhythm/repetition, proportion, variety and size) will be emphasised. Three dimensional models will be created to understand structure. Through drawn exercises, students will learn to create strong character poses that communicate effectively with the audience. Students will study various artistic styles in animation and work individually and as part of a team to create effective, original character models.	1.89
anim-104	In this course, students will learn how to visualize and draw what they actually see rather than what their minds tell them they see. Through the practice of drawing from the live model, students will learn to create drawings that are accurate and clear in their presentation of weight, proportion, structure, volume and balance. Students will learn to quickly capture the essence of a model's pose through gesture drawing.	2.05
anim-105	This course introduces students to the history and development of character animation as an entertainment medium from the early 1900s to the present. Students will learn about the artists, executives, studios and animated cartoon characters that entertained audiences and built a unique industry.	1.8
anim-106	Students will be introduced to more complex character animation involving quadrupeds and effects animation. Animal anatomy and movement including walks, runs and jumps will be practiced with an emphasis on acting and composition in a three-dimensional space. An introduction to effects animation will study how the laws of physics pertain to the movement of smoke, fire, water and other natural phenomena.	1.99
anim-107	In this course, students will increase their understanding of timing, animation principles, design and efficient production methods to create original animated performances. Acting and dialogue are the focus of this course. Students will be introduced to digital production methods used in the industry, create their own digital character rigs and will use this knowledge in the creation of their own believable animated sequences.	1.93
anim-108	Students will continue to develop their abilities in the design and creation of hand drawn characters that emphasise appeal and personality. Students will study a wider range of artistic styles and incorporate these styles into their own designs. The role of the character/prop designer as part of a design team will be studied. Students will create an original concept package for an animated production that includes multiple characters in the same original style.	1.81
anim-109	Students will develop their drawing and visualization skills and will increase their ability to accurately render the human form in movement. This course introduces students to the anatomical design of the human form and the relationships of bone and muscle of the human body in action and at rest. Gesture drawing for animation will continue to be developed.	1.97
anim-110	Students will be introduced to the skills required to create effective background designs. Perspective drawing, composition of the stage, lighting, research and proper use of the animation camera will be emphasised in this course.	2.05
anim-116	This course is an introduction to how animators create the illusion of life through the manipulation of single images. The five conditions of motion are studied as they pertain to movement and how that movement is interpreted by the viewer. Principles of animation are introduced and students will incorporate them as a means to create hand drawn animation that is believable and entertaining.	2.06
anim-117	This course emphasises the movement of bipeds and the process of key animation. Students will learn to create hand drawn animation of human and anthropomorphic characters that evoke a sense of weight and believability. Students will be introduced to sound recording, sound breakdown and animating to pre-recorded dialogue in order to create animation performances.  Acting for animation will be a continuous theme throughout this course.	2.01
anim-200	Students will utilize their understanding of animation principles and timing to create strong, believable performances with more complex characters.  Traditional methods of classical animation on paper will be taught. Students will produce fully animated sequences with an emphasis on acting and performance.	2.18
anim-201	Students will be introduced to the role of the story artist in the animation industry and learn the industry-standard methods used to create storyboards for animation. Students will explore one or more software packages used by studios in the creation of storyboards and animatics. Students will use the theory and practices learned in this course to plan their animated projects in the following term.	2.0
anim-202	This course continues to develop the observational drawing skills of the students as they learn the techniques required to use more design in their life drawing.  Students will shift their focus from purely analytical and accurate drawing of the human form to a more aesthetic and creative drawing process.	2.23
anim-203	Hand drawn animation has evolved to include complex digital software in the production of animated projects. Knowledge of these tools has become a requirement for graduates seeking careers in animation. This course focuses on procedures used to create and animate digital 2D characters using industry-standard software. The techniques that students learn in this course will prepare them for more complex digital projects in the final term.	2.25
anim-204	In this course, students will learn to utilize design theory and practices in the creation of more complex and effective background designs. Advanced perspective techniques, research skills and lighting design will be used to create original hand drawn environments that become the stage for the animated actors.	2.14
anim-205	This course focuses on the creation of feature quality character animation.  Students will work with original and classic characters in the design and animation of scenes that are professional in their execution and believability. Emphasis will be on the animation of multiple characters, expressive dialogue and continuity in animated sequences that focus on storytelling.	2.18
anim-206	In this course, students will apply the skills and techniques developed in previous studio classes to create work that exhibits mastery in the drawing of the human form, draped and undraped. Students will have their work critiqued and gain experience critiquing the work of others. Students will create their final portfolio pieces in this course and develop a sketchbook of drawings from life experienced on and off campus.	2.14
anim-207	In this course, students will learn of the roles and skill requirements of the concept artist and the visual development artist in commercial animation production. Utilizing digital drawing and compositing tools, students will create finished artwork that will become a major part of their portfolios. Students will develop both a personal style of their own and the ability to produce work in established styles. Colour theory and the use of colour as a story device will be explored.	2.3
anim-208	This course enables students to attain superior skills in one area of production. Students choose what they want to excel at and with the help of the instructor, plan the steps that will ensure post-graduate success. The instructor will work with students to develop projects that provide outstanding content for their portfolios and/or demo reels. Included in this course are studio tours, networking opportunities with successful alumni and guest speakers.	2.28
anim-209	This course will explore the latest innovative technologies and applications that pertain to animation, from interactive input devices to film and game production in entertainment and education.  The course will introduce students to new opportunities and career path alternatives. Students will study how animation and its applications have evolved, learn about the latest uses of animation and attempt to hypothesise where their own skills may be used in the future.	2.05
anim-210	This course is designed to introduce students to entrepreneurship: owning and operating a business that makes use of the technical and creative skills of the artist/animator. The course focuses on the tasks required to succeed as a freelance artist as well as what is needed to create one's own business, including a business plan, marketing research, financing, accounting, taxation, marketing, and human resource management.	2.29
anth-121	Students will learn the core concepts and methods of sociocultural anthropology. They will be introduced to a wide variety of cultural responses to the challenges of human life , with a focus on what it means to be human : surviving and thriving in particular environments, communicating ideas and beliefs, organizing societies, and finding creative outlets for expression. Students will also explore the process and effects of social difference and identity, with a focus on rapid cultural change, engendered through colonization, the expansion of capitalism, and globalization.	1.86
anth-123	This course provides an introduction to the theoretical foundations and methods of archaeology, including the techniques used to discover, reconstruct, and interpret the human past. Examples will be drawn from archaeological research around the world.	1.87
anth-124	This course is an introduction to the theoretical foundations and evidence for human origins as presented by archaeology and biological anthropology. The biological and cultural evolution of humankind is examined through a study of evolutionary theory, primate behaviour, skeletal remains, and archaeological discoveries.	2.08
anth-200	This course will familiarize students with the major theoretical and methodological traditions within anthropology. These will be critically examined and the influences on contemporary anthropology assessed. The issues and debates surrounding such topics as social organization, representation, ethics, gender, tradition, religion, subsistence practices and the dynamic nature of culture may be explored in a variety of ethnographic case studies.	2.21
anth-202	The study of the interaction of people, culture and environments, emphasizing human adaptive strategies. Focus of the course will vary each semester, exploring such topics as subsistence patterns, systems of knowledge in traditional cultures, modernization and globalization, and current issues.	2.11
anth-203	This course introduces students to medical anthropology, examining the cultural, social, and biological aspects of health and illness in a global context. It explores how different societies understand and respond to health, with attention paid to different ethnomedical systems such as biomedicine, Ayurveda, and traditional medicine from Indigenous communities globally. This course emphasizes the role of culture, power, and inequality in shaping health practices and access to care. Students will learn theories and methods of medical anthropology, critically reflecting on their own and others' experiences with disease, healing, and health technologies. This course is ideal for those interested in science, healthcare, public health, cultural studies, anthropology, or critical theory.	2.06
anth-204	A study of the relations between ethnic groups. The construction, maintenance and expression of ethnic boundaries and identities will be examined within a variety of cultural contexts, including Canada. The course will address the social construction of difference and will offer perspectives on racial stereotyping, the politics of representation, the expression of ethnic popular culture and its wider consumption. Processes, such as de-colonization and globalization which have been involved in the rise of ethnic consciousness will be analysed, together with theoretical concepts through which ethnicity may be comprehended.	2.19
anth-205	The course examines multiculturalism in Canada with comparative material drawn from other parts of the world. The creation and impact of multiculturalism will be addressed from historical and cultural perspectives. Topics covered may include: history and reality of Canadian immigration, the changing cultural landscape, maintenance of culture and identity, and the influence of official policy.	2.07
anth-206	This course focuses on the First Nations of British Columbia through the lens of anthropology. Through lectures, discussions, readings, guest speakers, and films, it will provide context for understanding the diversity of First Nations' cultures, peoples, and issues. Students will obtain an understanding of the archaeological record in the province; cultures as they were immediately prior to the arrival of Europeans; Indigenous oral histories; the impact and legacies of colonialism; and the contemporary lives and experiences of First Nations peoples.	2.03
anth-207	This course explores the impacts of climate change on human evolution. Students will learn about interdisciplinary methods used to reconstruct ancient environments and to examine human ancestors biological and behavioural responses to change. Students will develop critiques of theories about humanenvironment relationships and reflect on how knowledge of the past can help address issues in the present and future. This course is ideal for those interested in science, environmental studies, human evolution, or interdisciplinary studies.	2.18
anth-208	A survey of the cultural history and social organization of indigenous peoples of the North American continent including Canada, the United States and Mexico. An examination of traditional lifestyles including family, political, religious and ecological patterns; and current issues.	2.0
anth-209	This course is a survey of the indigenous societies of South America, Central America, and Mexico.  Course subject matter will be addressed from an archaeological and cultural anthropological perspective and will include:  a review of traditional lifeways of indigenous cultures in different regions of Latin America (including social organization, political structure, economy, and belief systems); an analysis of the impact and effect of European contact and policy on indigenous peoples, including assimilation strategies and resistance movements; and an examination of in Latin American societies today, including contemporary issues, patterns of change, and the maintenance of various traditional practices.	2.18
anth-210	This course explores the deep roots of humanity across Africa. Students will learn about archaeological topics ranging from the origins of human biological and cultural diversity to the innovations of complex social networks. The course uses a decolonial lens to focus on African scholarship and students will critically reflect on how narratives of the human past impact discourses about Africa today. This course is ideal for those interested in Africa, science, archaeology, or interdisciplinary studies.	2.03
anth-222	This course will address the deceptively simple question of why do we eat what we do? It will explore human food systems from our nutritional needs, through our classification of resources into edible and inedible, and how we acquire ingredients, cook them, and then share them through meals. Food reaches into everyone's existence, and as such it is offers us an opportunity to uncover and begin to understand our cultural similarities and differences expressed through our food habits. The course will draw upon ethnographic material from many cultures, and utilise current debates in the relatively new field of the anthropology of food.	2.09
anth-225	This course introduces students to the study of music as a fundamental expression of culture.  Through diverse case studies, students will explore the ways in which music and music-making are embedded within complex cultural systems, by examining the relationships between music and other components of human societies.  Prior knowledge or study of music is not required for this course.	2.1
anth-230	This course will introduce students to the anthropological study of religion by considering some of its major topics, such as magic, witchcraft, shamanism and rites of passage. It will also provide rich ethnographic case studies as examples of the practice of religion in a variety of cross-cultural contexts.	2.12
anth-232	This course will familiarize students with the nature of archaeological research in Africa, Asia and Europe. The primary focus is on providing a survey of cultural adaptations, from the first evidence of culture to the earliest civilizations. Theoretical, legal, and ethical issues related to the discovery, recovery, and interpretation of the archaeological record in Africa, Asia and Europe are also examined.	2.0
anth-233	This course will familiarize students with the nature of archaeological research in the Americas. The primary focus is on providing a survey of cultural adaptations, from the initial peopling of the continents to the period of European contact. Theoretical, legal and ethical issues related to the discovery, recovery, and interpretation of the archaeological record in the Americas are also examined.	2.08
anth-240	This course will introduce students to visual anthropology. Students will examine a wide variety of artistic traditions from around the world by exploring such topics as cross-cultural aesthetics, the function of art, the role of artists, and art and ethnicity.	2.03
anth-241	This practical field course focuses on the identification, recording and recovery of archaeological remains.  The majority of the time is spent in the field. When the course is offered during a seven week summer session, the course hours each week are doubled.	2.23
anth-249	An interdisciplinary course to consider in depth a particular geographic area and its people. Comparative institutions, cultural ecology, contemporary issues, methods of observation and study. Students and instructor study in the field.	2.15
anth-320	This course examines archaeology in popular culture from a critical perspective, focusing on understanding the nature of popular culture and how social scientists study it, and evaluating the way archaeology, archaeologists, and the human past  are portrayed in media, tourism, theme parks, and advertising.	2.6
anth-323	From environmental degradation to technological advances that forever change the way we live - many of the themes that characterize our modern society can also be seen in the archaeological record of past societies.  This course examines some of the most significant developments that occurred during the early course of human existence, such as the origins of agriculture, the nature and causes of warfare in ancient societies, and issues deriving from early versions of global politics and global economies in the ancient world.  We will conclude by critically evaluating the contribution of archaeological research on past societies to addressing current problems in our own.	2.5
anth-340	Stuff, the perfect term to capture humanity's material baggage, and this course explores, from an anthropological perspective, the way people make stuff, and how stuff makes people. It follows the journey of stuff from point of origin, through exchange, display, consumption, and destruction. This will be explored through two decades of anthropological ideas about material culture that culminates in a new theory of materiality that will make anyone look with fresh eyes at their own possessions. The course will explore the creation of commodities, cross-cultural encounters through material culture, the representation of stuff in museums, and will finally examine private possessions, consumption, and ultimately reflect on how our stuff defines us today.		2.7
anth-342	This course will examine the way culture shapes the formation of identity for its members throughout their lifespan. Aging will encompass the whole lifespan from the moment of birth to death. It will provide a cross-cultural exploration the processes of aging through the lenses of gender, kinship, social organization, religion, politics and economics. Particular emphasis will be placed on understanding the acquisition of status and the societal roles that accompany each life stage.	2.49
anth-350	This course will draw upon ethnographic material, and will provide an integrated description and ethnological analysis of the cultures, their historical and present day economic, social, political, and religious ways of life of selected ethnic groups from different regions around the world. The selection of the region may vary from one semester to the next.  See the Anthropology Department website for the specific focus for a specific semester.	2.56
anth-355	Language is intimately connected to cultural identity and it is through language that we express our relationships to land and to other beings. Throughout history, language has been a powerful tool in the creation of social difference and the maintenance of social inequality. It has also functioned as a means of resistance to dominance and oppression. This course applies an anthropological perspective to the study of language ideologies and strategies across time and space, and within the contexts of colonialism, state-building, nationalism, Indigenous rights, and cultural resurgence.	2.66
anth-420	This course explores contemporary issues in anthropology, including current debates in the discipline. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but may include, for example, examinations of anthropology's response to globalization, anthropology and the military, representations of the 'other', or debates on ethical concerns in research.	2.98
anth-490	Students will work with an Anthropology faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of Anthropology website for complete details on the application process.	2.6
aba-100	This course will introduce students to the basic principles of the science of behaviour and the application of that science to real world problems through course readings, activities, lectures, and assignments. Basic principles such as reinforcement, punishment, and instructional techniques will be discussed.	1.85
aba-101	This course will introduce students to the application of basic principles of the science of behaviour in real world settings. Students will collect observational data in each setting and discuss with their peers and Instructor during class meetings. Settings may include preschool, school-aged, and adult services as well as a recreational setting.	1.97
aba-200	This course will introduce students to a variety of applications of Applied Behaviour Analysis across a range of settings and applications. Students will learn about a range of clinical applications from assigned readings, activities, and class lectures. Topics will include: education, medicine, business and industry, human health and sports, gerontology, and sustainable societies.	2.28
aba-201	This course will introduce students to the use of ABA principles and procedures to support the learning and development of those with autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities. Through course readings, activities, lectures, and assignments, students will learn a variety of practical strategies to apply when working with various populations of individuals who experience developmental challenges. Completion of this course will enable students to seek certification as a Registered Behavior Technician. This course is appropriate for those seeking to provide direct intervention services to children, youth, and/or adults with autism and other developmental disabilities in a variety of settings, including home, school, and communities.	2.01
aba-312	This research methods course focuses on procedures and issues related to the design, interpretation and analysis of single subject research, also referred to as small N research. It covers general methodological information as well as specific details about single subject methods in applied settings.	2.66
aba-313	This course introduces students to a variety of issues and topics relevant to individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and their families, and those who support them. Students will learn how to collaborate with and effectively support families and other team members and support the development of academic, leisure, friendship/social, sexual, and vocational skills, in addition to investigating other topics and issues of special interest.	2.62
aba-341	Applied behaviour analysis is a natural science approach to the study of behaviour. This course introduces students to the basic concepts and principles of applied behaviour analysis and serves as a pre-requisite to ABA 342. It will be of interest, and applicable to, students in psychology, early childhood education, business and industry, as well as other fields.	2.43
aba-342	Applied behaviour analysis is a natural science approach to the study of behaviour. This course is a continuation of ABA 341 and introduces students to the basic concepts and principles of applied behaviour analysis. It will be of interest, and applicable to, students in psychology, early childhood education, business and industry, as well as other fields.	2.48
aba-343	This course provides in-depth knowledge of the Behavior Analyst Certification Board's (BACB) Professional and Ethical Compliance Code (PECC) for behavior analysts. Students will learn to apply a process-driven model of identifying and resolving ethical dilemmas in the delivery of behaviour analytic services to clients in home, school, and community settings.	2.63
aba-344	This is an overview of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs). The course examines neurological, communication, social, and educational characteristics of individuals who have been identified as having ASD. By the end of this course, students will demonstrate knowledge related to the characteristics of persons with ASD, causes and prevalence of ASD, and common evidence-based intervention practices in ASD.	2.54
aba-345	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the philosophy and methods of functional behavioural assessment and the development of positive behaviour support plans for persons who engage in challenging behaviour in home, school, and community settings. Topics covered will include principles of behaviour change, summary hypothesis statements and competing behaviour pathway diagrams, design of multi-component behaviour support plans, and the design of plans that are both technically sound and contextually-appropriate.	2.41
aba-346	This course builds on content covered in ABA 344. In this course, students learn about a number of common, behaviorally based interventions designed to teach specific skills to individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Students learn about evidence-based intervention approaches to address toilet training, bedtime and sleep challenges, feeding problems and food refusal behaviour. Additional topics include literacy development, augmentative and alternative communication, video modeling, and family-centered positive behavior support. The course features a number of local experts who speak to students regarding specific evidence-based approaches to intervention for children, youth, and adults with ASD.	2.46
aba-410	Students will gain practical experience in the design and implementation of behavioural programs with individuals.  All students will work in community-based agencies, attend and complete agency orientation, meet agency guidelines for volunteers and/or employees, and will be supervised by community-based BCBA(s) and ABA Department faculty. Upon completion of ABA 410, students will have obtained 350 hours of supervised hours required towards certification as a Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst.	2.66
aba-411	Students will gain practical experience in the design and implementation of behavioural programs with individuals.  All students will work in community-based agencies, attend and complete agency orientation, meet agency guidelines for volunteers and/or employees, and will be supervised by community-based BCBA(s) and ABA Department faculty. Upon completion of this course, students will have obtained 150 hours of the 500 supervised hours required towards certification as a Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst.	2.86
aba-412	This directed studies course offers students the opportunity to select a behaviour analytic topic of their choice, conduct a thorough literature search, and present their findings in three formats: a written literature review paper, a conference-style poster presentation, and an oral presentation.	2.81
aba-415	This course will address topics related to developing self determination, vocational, recreational, social, and health-related skills in adults with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) and other developmental disabilities (e.g., intellectual disability, Down syndrome, multiple disabilities, etc.).	2.99
aba-426	This course reviews a number of early behavioural intervention models and assessment approaches, and the development of behaviour plans of intervention. It also reviews a variety of common clinical issues when delivering ABA services in home and school settings.	2.59
aba-443	This course expands on the behaviour-analytic knowledge base developed in previous ABA courses with a focus on mastery and application of a full range of basic behavioural concepts and principles. Through readings and class discussions, students will learn about the philosophical underpinnings of behaviour analysis, develop essential skills for professional behavior analysts, and review behaviour change procedures with a focus on considerations in selecting and implementing interventions.	2.96
aba-300	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.47
aba-301	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.56
aba-302	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.58
aba-303	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.68
aba-304	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.53
aba-305	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad , while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.46
aba-306	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.66
aba-307	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.46
aba-308	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.65
aba-309	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.48
aba-500	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.34
aba-501	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.3
aba-502	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.26
aba-503	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.27
aba-504	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.37
aba-505	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.96
aba-506	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.81
aba-507	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.82
aba-508	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.94
aba-509	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.36
ahis-100	This course studies the history of Western Art beginning with the sculpture, painting and architecture of Ancient Egypt and concluding with the Gothic Cathedrals and Italian fresco paintings of the High Middle Ages in Europe. An understanding and appreciation of art are the aims of this course, and through illustrated lectures, class discussions and assignments, students will develop an eye for seeing and appropriate terms to describe the works shown. Our involvement with the art of the past clearly reveals how changing styles in visual culture are influenced by the historical context and the political, social and religious thought of each period.	1.92
ahis-101	This is an introductory survey course of Western Art from the 15th to the start of the 20th Century. Beginning with the art of the Renaissance, this course will study, chronologically, the history of painting, sculpture and architecture of each period. Individual artists including Leonardo, Michelangelo, Rubens, Rembrandt, Goya, Van Gogh and Picasso are studied in addition to the larger period styles. The economic, political, social, and religious ideas of each period will be closely considered.	1.88
ahis-103	This course will examine the diverse and rich production of objects by Northwest Coast First Nations people, including the Coast Salish, Haida, Kwakwaka'wakw, Nuu-chah-nulth, Tlingit, and Tsimshian. The characteristics of material culture both before European colonization and up until the present day will be discussed in relation to: traditional visual practices; the impact of colonialism on aboriginal objects; the salvage paradigm; constructed notions of authenticity, art, and artifact; the roles played by art history, anthropology, and ethnology in the preserving and collecting of artifacts; the roles played by museums and galleries in object display, and how the tourist market and art market shape art production.	1.9
ahis-104	Using illustrated lectures, discussions, field trips and assignments, participants in this course will be introduced to the means of visual communication that have served the expressive, ritual and commercial needs of diverse cultures and individuals throughout history. We will define the basic terminology of art and visual media, examining the interaction of form and content. We will investigate the many purposes of art through an examination of its past and present roles within different societal and political contexts.	1.83
ahis-105	This course thematically examines issues in art history with relevance to contemporary discourse. Topics range from ritual and spirituality in art to representations of gender, sexuality, politics, identity and the body, as well as images of nature, war, death and commemoration. We will also look into aspects of photography, modern architecture, censorship, and the role of museums.	2.01
ahis-106	Using illustrated lectures, discussions, field trips, and assignments this course critically situates nonwestern art within contemporary socio-historical and art historical discourses such as colonialism and indigenous resistance. Drawing on examples from the rich cultural and material histories of Meso-America, Africa, and the Northwest Coast, we will engage with the complex, and often controversial issues that shape our understanding of these diverse art practices. Topics include primitivism, museums and repatriation, the ethics of archaeology, tourist art, gender, photography and film.	2.02
ahis-107	Explore exotic Indian temples, ancient Chinese burials and Japanese shrines in this introductory course to Asian art. Indian, Chinese and Japanese works of art will be examined in the light of cultural, religious, social and political issues to emphasize the close connections between art and society. In particular, the impact of Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism on the arts will be examined. Students will gain insights into the evolution of important periods, styles and artistic traditions in Asian art. Consideration will be given to a wide range of art forms, including the performing arts and the Japanese tea ceremony.	2.08
ahis-109	This course is an examination of how women have been represented in the art of the past, as well as an investigation of women artists throughout history. The focus is on North America and Europe. The course will discuss issues such as how gender differences are upheld and critiqued in visual images, and the obstacles women artists have faced. The significant ways in which feminist inquiry has changed the practice of art history will be a key theme.	1.93
ahis-140	This course is designed to explore the art and architecture of Iran (formerly known as Persia) by examining artworks from across media including architecture, painting, metalwork, woodwork, glass, and textile. By completing this course, students will be familiar with the visual vocabulary and artistic practices of Persian art from its ancient to contemporary times, as well as the art produced by Iranian artists in diaspora. They will be able to analyze the visual features of these artworks and contextualize them by applying the appropriate terminology. They will be motivated to expand their knowledge to other artworks from the region and draw comparisons with artistic traditions they are more familiar with.	1.81
ahis-210	This course is a chronological, critical history of 19th Century European art, particularly painting. The necessary earlier historical background will be covered at the beginning of the course - Absolutism, the role of the Salon, the French Revolution, and the Enlightenment. The development of individual artists will be considered in relation to major art movements and the shifting socio-political aspects of the period (civic uprisings, the Industrial Revolution, changes in the art market and patronage, etc.). Issues of class, gender, and race will also be emphasized.	2.28
ahis-211	This course is a critical history of 20th century European art and traces the subsequent development of art in the U.S. from the 1940s to contemporary times. The aim of this course is to study the assumptions and achievements of modernism. Art will be placed within the context of the rapid aesthetic, social, economic, theoretical and political upheavals of the period.	2.23
ahis-215	Artists offer unique perspectives on technologies. The topic of art and technology has recently been given a new impetus as artists have become interested in digital technologies and cutting-edge bio-technologies (cloning, genetic engineering). Yet the relationship between art and technology is not new, but ancient. Examining their interaction is vital, particularly given our current situation of rapid change. The topic will be of interest to students in both the humanities and the sciences.	2.23
ahis-220	This course traces the origins of the Early Renaissance in Italy, beginning with the art of Giotto and focusing attention on the creators of the new style, the architects, sculptors and painters of Florence, Arezzo, Mantua and Venice. The intellectual, religious and political climate of the fifteenth century, linked to the expression in this new art, will also be considered, as will the emerging importance of private patronage.	2.18
ahis-221	This course studies the art of the High Renaissance and the emerging view of the artist as sovereign genius. The work of Leonardo, Michelangelo and Raphael is examined in depth. Focus is then given to the artists of the Mannerist School, whose highly subjective and artificial style dominates the latter part of the 16th century. The contributions of the Venetians as well as the architecture of Palladio will also be considered.	2.12
ahis-241	This course will survey modern architecture from its roots in the later Industrial Revolution through present-day production, taking into account changes in technology, socio-cultural context, architectural theory and paradigms of globalism and environmental awareness.  Many prominent architects will be discussed as well how broader trends and movements such as the Arts-and-Crafts, International Modernism, Brutalism and Postmodernism have impacted the architecture of Greater Vancouver.	2.0
ahis-250	This course takes an in-depth look at art and the environment, in particular the changing perceptions of nature in art through time and, more currently, art activism and art collaboration in relation to climate change, ecological crisis, and the anthropocene. This course looks at how artists have examined the human relationship to the landscape and the planet, from earth art, to repurposing trash, to developing visual strategies to accompany protests and enhance advocacy. The course includes examples of contemporary First Nations art and local Vancouver artists.	2.03
ahis-251	This course examines the intersections of art and the market, how art becomes an investment, how auction houses function, and the criminal element that tries to cash in through art theft and forgery. We will examine a number of case studies to understand the world of art and business, from Sotheby's to museum intrigues to critical reviews to the elite world of experts, art collecting, and donor gifts.	2.29
ahis-252	Always in the vanguard of global exchange, the dynamic and multicultural metropolis of Vancouver is an exciting model of the trans-global city of the future. Using illustrated lectures, discussions, and assignments, students participating in Art History 252 will be introduced to the history, culture and artistic accomplishments of Greater Vancouver. Multiple on-site visits make this course an enriching, participatory and interactive experience for both local and international students, allowing them to better understand the West Coast and Canadian culture, in which they are living and working, as well as discovering contemporary Indigenous art in public spaces. By surveying selected examples from various genres and media we will investigate the many functions of art through an examination of its past and present roles in the diverse societal and political contexts of Vancouver.	2.09
ahis-260	For thousands of years humans have made cloth to serve functional, decorative, expressive and communicative needs. This course will explore the myriad ways in which fabric has been used socially, politically and aesthetically. Topics will include: textiles as narratives, identity, social status, spirituality, political affiliation or protest and technological development. Through studies drawn from a selection of ethnic, social or historical groups from around the world students will be introduced to the rich study of textiles from the Paleolithic period to the present day.	2.17
ahis-305	This course surveys the history of photography from its technical beginnings in the 1830s to the use of photographic technologies in current postmodern practice.  The course focuses on selected practitioners and aesthetic movements from the 19th and 20th centuries as well as the interaction of photography with mass media, including commercial photography and photojournalism.  Emphasis is placed on the socio-political and aesthetic roles photography plays in culture and its use as evidence in classification, photojournalism, anthropology, and forensics.	2.43
ahis-315	The Art of the Baroque examines the rise of the Baroque as a style and an ideology from its origins in the art and architecture of Counter-Reformation Rome, and follows the dissemination of Baroque tendencies through the countries of 17th-century Europe, including Flanders, Spain, France, the Dutch Republic, and England.  The course traces the close interrelationships between art, architecture, politics, religion, and science at the start of the modern period.	2.59
ahis-320	This course examines major examples of art activism from the mid-twentieth century to the present and uses a variety of readings to shape understandings of both historical and contemporary issues in relation to art production: war and conflict, poverty and homelessness, the environment and climate change, technological change, corporate capitalism, neo-liberalism, and globalization.	2.48
ahis-325	Through close reading and discussion of influential art-historical texts this course will critically survey various approaches that have characterized the interpretive discourse on art from the Renaissance to the present day. Topics will include (auto-) biography, stylistic/formal analysis, connoisseurship, iconography and iconology, patronage and reception, social history, Marxist perspectives, psychoanalytic approaches, semiotics and structuralism, postmodernism, postcolonialism, deconstruction, feminism and gender studies.	2.47
ahis-330	When faced with trauma and atrocity, what can art do? This class focuses on the role of representation in relation to trauma, particularly with the theoretical concept of post-memory in mind (the trauma of those who did not directly experience the event). We will predominantly examine the 20th Century and some of its cataclysmic events as they have been imaged by artists, including painters, printmakers, sculptors, graphic novelists, and photographers. The course will appeal to anyone interested in how art can facilitate or impede individual and collective memory, and how we deal with or repress events (historical amnesia), and Truth and Reconciliation. It will also be useful for students intending to work in organizations that advocate for and empower marginalized populations.	2.56
ahis-335	This course will examine how the visual arts have been implicated in the construction of Canada as a nation. Indigenous, French, and British traditions have contributed to contemporary understandings of Canada as a nation distinct from all others, but at the same time, inextricably linked to wider histories of settler colonialism, nationalism, and globalization. These broad themes will be illuminated through a critical analysis of specific topics and media, including photography, landscape, gender, ethnicity and the role of museums/art galleries.	2.52
ahis-340	Using case studies, this course explores alliances between the arts and sciences, both historical and contemporary. The two realms approach knowledge in similar and different ways, but they have always informed and influenced one another. When at their best and working together, they can identify and offer solutions to local and global problems. Creating intentional linkages between the arts and sciences facilitates a deeper understanding of how we interact with other people, creatures, and the world. This is a project-based course which relies on group collaboration.	2.45
ahis-410	This course provides an in-depth look at how museums and galleries structure perceptions of art and function as public and/or private spaces.  Students will examine a number of case studies to better understand the diversity of practices and institutions.	2.59
ahis-425	This course critically analyzes images of the so-called Other in Western art. Western art is crowded with bodies that dominant powers have violently suppressed. In considering case studies from medieval times to the present, we re-evaluate maligned societal types - witches, criminals, peasants, shepherds, beggars, prostitutes, homosexuals, non-Europeans and non-Christians, the mentally ill and disabled  who have typically been marginalized or excluded from dominant culture. Select readings and images will be studied to expose the ideologies that privilege some people and subordinate others. The contexts include colonialism, xenophobia, patriarchy, religious strife, psychiatry, and medicalization of sexuality, and race.	2.75
ahis-430	Graphic books are a special breed of storytelling. This course, through power-point presentations, seminar-style class discussions, readings, and drawing exercises, examines the unique contributions of graphic novels, memoirs, and histories. Major examples will be examined and interpreted. Students will become familiar with their stylistic innovations, the image-text relationship, and how artists use the concepts of time and space in this visual medium.	2.75
ahis-490	Students will work with an Art History faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of Art History website for complete details on the application process.	2.69
aem-101	    Art, Self, and Society examines the role of art's impact on society and the self, exploring key cultural and public policy issues including community standards and censorship. Students will explore questions related to the social functions of the arts; the use of art for advocacy and patronage over the world; and the impact of art on society and economic development. The geographic focus of this course is global and will compare art, including commercial entertainment and the media, and cultural practices and impacts from various cultures around the world, including Indigenous art. In addition to exploring these issues in a larger context, this course also provides an opportunity for students to reflect on their own lived experiences and the role and significance of art in their own lives through creative assignments and arts-informed inquiry approaches.	1.92
aem-135	    This course examines the principles and practices of arts and entertainment management, including organizational structures, human resource management, decision-making approaches, culture creation, and strategic planning. Students will explore the ethical considerations of leading a values-based arts and entertainment organization and how the cultural context both informs and is affected by the organization's mission, vision, structure, and planning. Students will examine and analyze these principles to create holistic self-care plans that integrate their personal values, strengths, and goals.	1.96
aem-140	    This course examines the Creative and Cultural Industries Management field, including types of creative industries, career options, and current issues in arts management. Students will also reflect upon their career goals and create preliminary plans for attaining them.	1.98
aem-141	    A continuation of AEM 140.	2.04
aem-142	    This highly experiential course introduces students to the various aspects of developing and producing arts/entertainment events and other cultural products. Projects vary based on student interest, and activities may include curation, project management, planning, budgeting, working with artists, interpreting contracts, troubleshooting, and pre-production and post-mortem reflection while respecting cultural identities and intersectionality.	1.95
aem-143	    Building on skills developed in Arts  Entertainment Management Studio I, this highly experiential course offers further refinement of skills for of developing and producing an arts/entertainment events and other cultural products, such as developing community partnerships, intercultural curation and production, sustainability, advocacy, building a reflective practice and leveraging networks while respecting cultural identities and intersectionality.	1.86
aem-145	    This course will explore various computer applications used by arts and entertainment managers to perform management functions while being mindful of the legal, ethical, and responsible use of digital information including privacy, intellectual property, and copyright. Students will interact with digital tools and resources used by arts and entertainment organizations to gather, manage, and present information such as streaming media and digital marketing materials.	1.88
aem-146	    This course introduces students to the various components involved with festival and community event management such as developing objectives, values-based programming/curation, community partnerships, risk management and harm reduction, and site/venue development. Students will learn to plan and execute festivals and community events while being mindful of equitable and inclusive best practices.	1.93
aem-147	    This course will introduce students to record label management.  Students will learn how to produce a CD from the creative concept and production stage through to the sales/marketing and retail stage.	2.05
aem-148	    This course will examine the various aspects of managing a venue. Students will learn box office and front of house operations, event services, maintenance, rental clients and human resources.	1.81
aem-149	    Students will explore ways in which performers can make money through means such as publishing, licensing, touring, booking, recording, and various performance types. Through discussions, case studies, and industry guests, students will examine how contracts, intellectual property, distribution, and performance interact within the business of performance.	2.09
aem-230	    Students will examine various issues within the arts and entertainment industry and in relation to their part-time practicum placement. Throughout the term, students will share and reflect on their experiences through online forums, journals, and reflective assignments.	2.02
aem-231	    Students will examine various issues within the arts and entertainment industry and in relation to their part-time practicum placement. Throughout the term, students will share and reflect on their experiences through online forums, journals, and reflective assignments.	2.13
aem-235	    This course calls upon students to recognize and challenge their social perceptions to address the inequalities that exist in both the arts and entertainment workforce and audience as a means to fully realize the positive contribution that arts, culture, and entertainment can make in society. Through case studies, readings, discussions, and guests, students will explore ethical questions in the creative and cultural industries. By engaging with Indigenous ways of knowing and being and examining the intersections between race, class, gender, sexuality, disability, and other identity categories, students will gain an understanding of cultural contexts and critical tools needed to work towards a more equitable arts and culture field.	2.13
aem-239	    This course will focus on transferring skills and knowledge from the academic environment to the practical work environment. Students will envision their career path and explore appropriate work environment fit for their practicum based on their strengths, preferences, values, and beliefs.	2.06
aem-240	    This course is the first of a pair of practicum courses. Students will gain on-the-job experience in various arts management positions. The experience will be determined by the organization that the student is placed with. Each student will be supervised by his/her immediate superior throughout the practicum. In order to foster a real working environment, students will be encouraged to work independently and be given objectives to accomplish during their practicum. A job description outlining duties and responsibilities will be issued.	2.08
aem-241	    This course is the second of a pair of practicum courses. Students will gain experience in their practicum through one or a combination of hands-on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed. Each student will be supervised by the instructor and by the practicum host (if applicable) throughout the placement. A practicum description outlining duties and responsibilities will be issued. The second placement may occur at a different organization than the first.	2.17
aem-245	    This course examines the role of both short-term marketing and long-term audience development in cultivating and engaging with a community to meet organizational objectives. Using a blend of theory and practice, students will determine effective ways to match the intent of communication to the message and channel. Students will learn to identify barriers to attendance and address them through culturally and ethically appropriate means.	2.01
aem-247	    This course introduces financial management concepts for the creative and cultural industry, including cultural products, accounting, project planning, budgeting, managing cash flow, record keeping, business operations, and payroll. This course examines the financial issues that are critical to both commercial and non-profit organizations in the industry such as film and TV, theatre, music, and festivals as well as budgets and finance for self-employment and entrepreneurial ventures.	2.25
aem-248	    This course explores funding for arts and entertainment organizations, including sources of funding, the fund development process, trends, ethics, and innovation. Students will gain experience developing campaigns, pitching, and writing proposals and grants for a range of creative industry enterprises while being mindful of ethical standards and equity, diversity, and inclusion.	2.1
aem-249	    Students will investigate strategies for managing artists' careers. Whether it be their own career or that of another, students will engage in goal planning, communication strategies, and building a brand for an artist. Students will examine relationship management, including exploring ethical considerations working with an artist in terms of one's values and beliefs.	2.08
aem-251	    This course prepares students for building and maintaining a career in the arts and entertainment industry.  Lectures and panel discussions will focus on transferring skills and knowledge from the academic environment to the practical work environment. Topics include self-assessment of employability skills, professional behaviour, resume writing, interview techniques, work search methods, goal setting and workplace skills.	2.2
aem-252	    Students will be introduced to the basic concepts of tour management in the performing arts. Lectures will focus on the process of tour organization and the resources available for booking tours.	2.01
aem-260	    Students will examine various issues within the arts and entertainment industry and in relation to their full-time practicum placement. Throughout the term, students will share and reflect on their experiences through online forums, journals, and reflective assignments.	2.04
aem-261	    Students will examine various issues within the arts and entertainment industry and in relation to their full-time practicum placement. Throughout the term, students will share and reflect on their experiences through online forums, journals, and reflective assignments.	2.13
aem-270	    Students will gain experience in their part-time practicum through one or a combination of hands-on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed.	2.12
aem-271	    Students will gain experience in their part-time practicum through one or a combination of hands-on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed.	2.06
aem-275	    This capstone guides students through individual projects carried out in cooperation with a faculty advisor. Based on knowledge and experience gained throughout the program, students will complete and present a graduation portfolio containing key elements of an event plan including, but not limited to, an event proposal, a budget, a marketing plan, and a sponsorship proposal or grant application.	2.21
aem-280	    Students will gain experience in their full-time practicum through one or a combination of hands-on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed.	2.07
aem-281	    Students will gain experience in their full-time practicum through one or a combination of hands-on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed.	2.01
aem-340	    This course is a 15-week practicum in which the student will assume a position working for a professional arts organization for 35 hours per week. These will generally be office hours with some evening and weekend work, depending on the position assigned. A job description outlining duties and responsibilities will be issued.	2.44
aem-341	    A 15-week practicum in which the student will assume a position working for a professional arts organization.	2.7
aem-345	    Students will develop an indepth understanding of how to apply various marketing strategies to engage arts and entertainment audiences. Students will create detailed marketing plans, including sponsorship agreements and public relation strategies to maximize the potential for news coverage in print, electronic (radio, TV) and online sources. Students will also evaluate various social media tools and tactics to achieve the most effective results.	2.62
aem-346	    Students will develop a thorough understanding of the concepts, principles and practices of profit and nonprofit management in arts and entertainment, including human resources, governance, strategic planning, entrepreneurship, leadership, professional behaviour, and Indigenizing the arts and entertainment workplace. Through this, students will also engage with strategies to support artistic vitality and institutional sustainability while reflecting values of equity, diversity and inclusion and managing the demands of numerous stakeholders within dynamic organizations and the broader community as they learn to become adaptable, agile leaders.	2.64
aem-347	    Students will gain a thorough understanding of financial management concepts for the arts and entertainment industry, including accounting, budgeting, costbenefit analysis, managing cash flow, forecasting, box office management, payroll, asset management and restriction, and trend analysis. This advanced course examines the financial issues that are critical to both commercial and nonprofit organizations in the industry, as well as budgets and finance for selfemployment and entrepreneurial ventures.	2.67
aem-348	    This course examines the critical role of resource development activities in performing arts and entertainment organizations. Students will develop the skills to construct and deliver effective funding proposals in traditional avenues such as grant writing, corporate sponsorship, and annual fund campaigns as well as social media and online fundraising operations.	2.69
aem-349	    Students will develop a thorough understanding of the concepts, principles and practices of artist development in arts and entertainment, including client selection, building a team, career management for artists, agent/managers' roles, revenue streams, self-managing an artistic career, and Indigenizing the artistic development environment. Through this, students will also engage with strategies to support artists while reflecting values of equity, diversity, and inclusion.	2.6
aem-350	    Students will learn the key concepts of organizing touring entertainment, focusing on the administrative and management responsibilities such as booking, budgeting, financing, routing, staffing, and decision making. Students will learn to generate contracts, riders, and stage plots as well as negotiate fees and working conditions for touring artists. Working with both music concert tours as well as performing arts tours, such as theatrical tours and ballet companies, students will be able to determine suitable venues to suit the needs of the production.	2.46
aem-355	    This course is the first of a pair of mixed mode courses.  Students will examine various issues within the arts and entertainment industry.  Throughout the term, students will share and reflect on their experience through online forums, journals and final seminars.	2.45
aem-356	    This course is the first in a pair of practicum courses. Students will gain experience in their practicum through one or a combination of hands on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed. Each student will be supervised virtually by the instructor and by the practicum host (if applicable) throughout the placement.	2.69
aem-361	    This course is the second of a pair of mixed mode courses.  Students will continue to examine and discuss various issues in arts and entertainment in the context of wider society and its economic and political trends. Throughout the term, students will share and reflect on their experience through online forums, journals and final seminars.	2.57
aem-362	    This course is the second in a pair of practicum courses. Students will gain experience in their practicum through one or a combination of hands-on experiences, including a placement in an arts/entertainment organization, participating in professional development (PD) activities, or completing special projects. The experience will be determined by the goals of the student as well as the organization with which the student is placed. Each student will be supervised virtually by the instructor and by the practicum host (if applicable) throughout the placement.	2.62
aem-363	    This capstone course guides students through individual projects carried out in cooperation with a faculty advisor. Based on knowledge and experience gained throughout the program, students will complete and present a graduation portfolio containing key elements of an event plan including, but not limited to, an event proposal, a budget, a marketing plan and a sponsorship proposal or grant application.  Students will also write an article on an industry topic as assigned.	2.44
astr-106	An introduction to astronomy emphasizing the physics underlying the behaviour of the universe and the means by which it is observed. Topics include Newtonian mechanics and gravitation, electromagnetic waves, observing instruments, the sun and solar system, stars, galaxies, cosmology and black holes. There is no lab component for this course.	1.98
astr-107	An introduction to astronomy with a lab, emphasizing the physics underlying the behaviour of the universe and the means by which it is observed. Topics include Newtonian mechanics and gravitation, electromagnetic waves, observing instruments, the sun and solar system, stars, galaxies, cosmology and black holes.	1.88
astr-142	A qualitative study of the universe as a whole: its birth, growth, shape, size and eventual fate. Cosmological principles underlying current knowledge are presented. The Big Bang, cosmic microwave background and nucleosynthesis are described. The expansion of the universe is presented with predictions for the Universe's fate. The relative nature of space and time, the evidence for dark matter and dark energy and competing theories seeking to explain the nature of the universe are discussed.	1.96
astr-300	Is there Life in the Universe beyond that which we find on Earth? This is a question that has inspired many people in many different disciplines that leads to further questions about the origin of life at the microscopic scale to formation of planets in the far reaches of our galaxy. This is an interdisciplinary course that will explore the possibilities for life existing outside of Earth, the conditions required for that life to exist, and how we can search for and detect life. This course will focus on the biological origins of life, the science and technology used to observe and detect the global effects of biological life, and the astronomy of our solar system, exoplanets, and celestial observation techniques.	2.41
bpac-400	This course is designed to expand students' understanding of the nature of performance through study of the genesis, theory and practice of various disciplines and concepts of performativity. Through exposure to a variety of approaches to contemporary performance creation, students will develop their capacities for analysis and critique in order to be able to identify and solve aesthetic, formal and conceptual problems in their own performance practice. Concepts covered are intended to support students in creation exercises in BPAC 403.	2.88
bpac-401	This course focuses on developing the skills necessary to create mutually beneficial partnerships with funding sources. It examines the critical role played by resource development activities in producing work and sustaining a performance facilitation/creation practice. Students will develop the skills to construct and deliver effective funding proposals in traditional avenues such as grant writing and corporate sponsorship, as well as social media and online fundraising operations. Students will become familiar with the various agreements under which artists affiliated with professional associations and unions can be engaged as well as aspects of intellectual property and copyright law.	3.0
bpac-402	This course will broaden the areas of expertise of Bachelor of Performing Arts students by offering instruction in various project development cycles. The course will outline and differentiate between various creation techniques as well as project management frameworks. Exercises/assignments will model best practices, culminating in a production plan that may be extended into a capstone project.	2.92
bpac-403	A companion course to BPAC 400, this course is designed to expand students' media sensibility. Through hands-on experimentation with a variety of approaches to contemporary performance creation, students will develop their ability to choose media suited to an intended expressive purpose in order to be able to identify and solve aesthetic, formal and conceptual problems in their own performance practice.	2.93
bpac-404	BPAC 404 builds on the analytical skills and understanding of performance developed in BPAC 400. Students will refine their own performance aesthetic in preparation for work to be presented in the end of program capstone projects.	2.82
bpac-405	This course will broaden the areas of expertise for Bachelor of Performing Arts students by offering instruction in various production planning skills. The skills may vary from year to year depending on the needs of the cohort and may be selected from but not limited to the following topics: Budgeting, Production Management, Production Scheduling, Symposium workshops with local Producers and Company Managers.	2.85
bpac-406	Students will acquire the knowledge and tools necessary to navigate an entrepreneurial career in the cultural sector. Topics covered may include but are not limited to: an overview of networked digital media; their revenue models and use as promotional platforms; effective networking; liaising with communities, cultural institutions and funding bodies; and working in the digitally augmented performance space.	2.63
bpac-407	BPAC 407 is the practice-based companion to BPAC 404, and follows on the practice-based BPAC 403 by situating the creative process within a production development cycle. Students will conceptualize, create and produce a capstone performance.	2.95
becp-021	This course introduces students to the fundamental skills they need to succeed in an education or career path. Students will explore a variety of study skills, familiarize themselves with the University's resources, develop a variety of research strategies, explore methods for developing good working relationships and research several of their chosen career choices.  This course uses mixed mode classroom and online course management format.	3.18
becp-041	Upon completion of this course, students will have developed detailed career plan including information on a chosen educational institution research, a financial plan and an action plan. Students will connect with University faculty and staff for support and guidance. Students will also analyze their skills and use this analysis to present themselves to future employers through interviews, resumes and covering letters. This course uses mixed mode classroom and online course management format.	2.83
biol-104	This course provides a perspective on the biology of the human animal. It explores humans from the level of our chemical components to the cooperation of organ systems which sustain life. The basic concepts of biochemistry, cell structure and function, digestion and nutrition, reproduction, genetics, and evolution are covered. This is a laboratory science course designed primarily for non-biology majors. Laboratory exercises include microscopy, dissections, genetic analysis and experimentation.	1.85
biol-105	This course, designed primarily as a laboratory science elective for non-science students, examines a wide range of environmental issues from a biological perspective. Basic principles of ecology are developed and the impact of modern society on the environment is assessed. The overall focus is global, however, basic ecological principles are developed using British Columbian and other Canadian examples. Major environmental issues relevant to Canada are also stressed. Major topics include ecological concepts, conservation and endangered species, air pollution and global warming, water resources, and water pollution.	1.86
biol-106	This course is intended for students planning to continue in biology or related disciplines. Topics are the same as in BIOL 110, with additional coverage of basic chemistry and cell biology.	1.92
biol-107	This course is intended for students planning to continue in biology or related disciplines. Topics are the same as in BIOL 110, with additional coverage of basic chemistry and cell biology.	1.87
biol-109	This course is intended for students planning to continue in biology or related disciplines, but who do not have appropriate chemistry pre-requisites for BIOL 110. This course also provides additional in-class assignments and exercises to support students with limited experience in the biological sciences, or those seeking additional learning support. Topics are the same as in BIOL 110, with additional coverage of basic chemistry, cell biology and the scientific method. Students should note that BIOL 109 laboratory classes will be identical and shared with BIOL 110 laboratory courses.	1.89
biol-110	This course provides a foundation in the basic concepts of Biology and is the standard course for students who plan to take further courses in Biology. Major topics include experimental methods and hypothesis testing in the biological sciences and the value of science, the chemistry of life, cell structure, function and metabolism, cellular reproduction, and the chromosomal and molecular basis of inheritance.	1.81
biol-111	The objective of this course is to complete the survey of biological concepts begun in BIOL 109 and BIOL 110. Biodiversity of living forms and their evolutionary relationships, classification schemes, an introduction to the structure, function and evolution of representative systems in plants	1.86
biol-112	This course provides a foundation in the study of human anatomy and physiology. It introduces the fundamental concepts of biochemistry, cell biology, human heredity and molecular biology. The anatomy and physiology of the endocrine, digestive and reproductive systems is covered as well as the study of fertilization, embryonic and fetal development.  Laboratory exercises include microscopy, dissections, genetic analysis and experimentation.	1.93
biol-113	This course is a continuation of Biology 112. The anatomy and physiology of the integumentary, muscular-skeletal, cardiovascular, respiratory, nervous, urinary and lymphatic systems is examined.   Emphasis is also given to the maintenance of overall health as well as the study of select diseases pertaining to the systems examined.  Laboratory sessions provide practical study of the selected systems and introduce techniques used to make physiological evaluations. The course along with Biology 112 satisfies the human anatomy and physiology requirements for some Human Kinetics programs, most nursing programs and other health science programs in BC.	1.94
biol-120	Students are introduced to the exceptional biodiversity in their environment, through place-based, experiential learning. Students will visit diverse terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, to gain familiarity with ecological monitoring and natural history. Field projects and seminars will emphasize major environmental topics, including biogeography of the region, principles of ecology, human impacts and conservation, incorporating Indigenous perspectives and Traditional Ecological Knowledge (TEK). Students will have the opportunity to contribute to scientific knowledge with meaningful discoveries of their own when completing a small group project.	1.98
biol-200	This course is an introduction to the principles and mechanisms of heredity. Emphasis will be placed on an analytical approach to transmission genetics, genetics of humans, introductory molecular genetics, quantitative genetics, and population genetics.	2.27
biol-202	This is an introductory course in human nutrition. The course includes the study of the anatomy and physiology of the gastrointestinal tract and the chemistry, metabolism and biological roles of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins. Nutritional requirements for human growth, development, energy and longevity are covered as well as both the environmental and genetic basis of nutritional disorders and nutritional individuality.	2.26
biol-203	This course will introduce students to basic principles of microbiology with applications to human health. The main focus of the course is on the biology of bacteria. Major topics include cell structure and function, metabolism, genetics, and involvement in human pathogenesis. Some aspects of virology and the human immune response will also be covered. Laboratory exercises will introduce students to standard microbiological lab techniques.	2.07
biol-208	This course is a comprehensive introduction to modern ecology.  Interactions between organisms and the environment will be studied at the individual, population, community, ecosystem, and global levels.  Laboratory exercises will introduce students to aspects of experimental design and data analysis, and will include several field trips to explore a variety of local ecosystems.	2.1
biol-209	This course provides a comparative approach to animal and plant physiology. Students will be introduced to the basic physiological principles and integrate biology, physics and chemistry to describe adaptations and physiological mechanisms underlying life. Systems covered will include nervous, endocrine, digestive and communication systems in both animals and plants.	2.14
biol-210	This course is a comparative study of the vascular plant groups, the pteridophytes, gymnosperms and angiosperms. It emphasises the evolution, morphology, ecology and function of each of the groups and includes discussions of problems in plant morphology.	2.26
biol-212	This course is a comparative survey of the major phyla and classes of invertebrates with emphasis on phylogeny, adaptive biology and ecology of each group. The course is designed around the major unifying concept of evolution. It introduces issues of contemporary interest in the field of invertebrate zoology. The laboratory complements the lecture components.	2.12
biol-213	This course is a comparative survey of the major classes of vertebrates, emphasizing phylogenetic relationships of chordates and craniates, and evolutionary trends and functional anatomy of organ systems.   The laboratory and field trip components of the course complement the lecture material and allow observations of representative vertebrates as well as the study of their natural history.	2.04
biol-214	This course is an integrated study of the structure and function of cells and their components. Ultrastructure of cell organelles as determined by electron microscopy will be related to the molecular functions of cells. Emphasis will also be placed on the techniques used to study cells, the evolutionary origin of cells and their components, and on comparisons between specialized cell structure and function. The laboratory exercises will use modern methods of microscopy and separation techniques in a detailed study of cell structures and their functions.	2.1
biol-215	This course examines the fundamental principles and basic facts of biochemistry starting with protein structure and enzyme functions. Cell energetics, biosyntheses and mechanisms which control cell metabolism will also be considered. The laboratory will use the current techniques of biochemistry to conduct experimental analyses of the molecular functions of cells and tissues.	2.08
biol-222	This course is a comprehensive introduction to microbiology.  The main focus is on the basic biology of prokaryotic microorganisms, including their cell structure, metabolism, genetics, and ecology.  Other topics include viruses, eukaryotic microbes, microbial diseases and the immune response.  The lab provides practical experience in standard microbiological techniques.	2.01
biol-230	This course provides an introduction to algae, nonvascular and vascular plants. The focus is on the key evolutionary and phylogenetic relations between the major taxonomic groups, highlighting the interrelationships between form and function. The course will develop topics in plant physiology, ecology and the importance of plants and algae to society, including Indigenous societies, with an emphasis on local species. Study of subject material will be enhanced by case studies, literature reviews, herbarium studies, field trips and lab observations and experimentation.	2.02
biol-231	This course introduces students to the interdisciplinary field of ethnobiology. There exists a dynamic relationship among the environment, biota and people which has both historically and in contemporary times informed human language, culture and practices of resource use. This relationship will be studied through the exploration of local ecosystems, their representative species including biological and cultural keystone species and will incorporate Traditional Ecological Knowledge through the engagement of knowledge holders of local First Nations communities.	2.2
biol-240	This course introduces students to key concepts of pathophysiology and disease. Students who have successfully completed this course will have gained a sound understanding of how the human body operates in healthy and chronically perturbed states (disease).	2.03
biol-241	This course introduces students to key concepts of pathophysiology and disease. It introduces the fundamental concepts of cellular pathology, immunopathology, cardiovascular pathology and respiratory pathology. Students who have successfully completed this course will have gained a sound understanding of how the human body operates in healthy and chronically perturbed states (disease).	2.03
biol-242	This course is a continuation of BIOL 241. The pathologies of the endocrine, digestive, musculoskeletal, renal and neural systems will be examined, as well as metabolic syndrome and disease. Students who have successfully completed this course will have gained a sound understanding of how the human body operates in healthy and chronically perturbed states (disease).	2.06
biol-300	This course features a detailed examination of the structure, mutability, and expression of the genetic material. Major topics include DNA replication, recombination, repair, and organization.  Prokaryotic, eukaryotic, and viral gene expression as well as recombinant DNA methods will also be covered.  Students will be introduced to searching and evaluating primary literature and will practice oral and written presentation skills. Laboratory exercises will focus on standard techniques for isolating and characterizing DNA sequences.	2.7
biol-305	This course will focus on the ecological principles that are needed to support critical thinking about sustainability. Students will learn about the dynamics of ecological systems and how they respond to natural and human disturbance. This knowledge will be applied to understand how ecological systems may be managed in ways that enhance rather than compromise their natural resilience.	2.59
biol-308	In this course students will examine the theory, practice, and tools of conserving biodiversity. Students will explore the genetic, organismal, and ecological diversity of life on Earth and how it has changed through time. They will evaluate the main causes of biodiversity loss, and the tools used to prevent it. Students will complete a problem-based learning project with an emphasis on local, regional or national conservation efforts.	2.55
biol-312	This course is a detailed examination of specific organ systems in the human body, including the digestive, nervous, and endocrine systems. The course focuses on integration of physiological mechanisms at the cellular and whole human level, how the systems integrate together to maintain homeostasis, and how the breakdown of these mechanisms leads to pathologies and diseases.	2.5
biol-313	This course is a detailed examination of specific organ systems in the human body, including the lymphatic, cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. The course focuses on integration of physiological mechanisms at the molecular and cellular level, how the systems integrate together to maintain homeostasis, and how the breakdown of these mechanisms leads to pathologies and diseases.	2.57
biol-314	This course is an integrated study of the biochemical and molecular aspects of cell function and communication, with an emphasis on signal transduction pathways integrating cellular physiological processes such as the cell cycle, cancer, immune function and neuronal communication.	2.69
biol-350	Students will be introduced to the natural history of BC's animal and plant species as well as the link between geological and biological history which is responsible for the geographic distribution of living things.  BC's fascinating geological and climatic history has played an important role in determining the province's present assemblage of flora and fauna and its high level of biodiversity compared to the rest of Canada.	2.42
biol-351	Students will be introduced to the relationship between earth's geological and biological history and the evolutionary processes which combine to determine the global distribution of plants, animals and ecosystems.   Major biomes, such as the tundra, boreal forests, tropical rainforests, grasslands and deserts and their characteristic vegetation and faunal groups will be included in the studies.	2.45
biol-352	This course will introduce students to Evolutionary Biology.  It will focus on the process of evolutionary change and the resulting patterns of biological diversity.  Recent advances and applications of evolutionary thought to human evolution, medicine, agriculture and conservation will be discussed.	2.46
biol-353	This course addresses brain anatomy and physiology and the pathophysiological basis of selected neurodegenerative diseases.  Major topics include the brain's role as a controller of vital biological processes and factors influencing brain homeostasis and health.  Effective strategies for the prevention of brain disease and restorative care will be examined.	2.64
biol-354	This course will provide an overview of the molecular pathology of selected chronic diseases.  Topics covered include the physiological function of cardiovascular, pulmonary, metabolic, neuromuscular and immunological systems and the pathology underlying selected chronic diseases of these systems.  The response of such systems to acute and chronic exercise as well as the link between physical inactivity and disease development and prevention will be examined.	2.41
biol-401	In this course students will learn fundamental principles of population ecology and apply them to a variety of issues of global and regional concern. Traditional ecological knowledge systems will be introduced in context to their application to population ecology. Lectures will focus on the dynamics of single and interacting populations, using both theoretical and empirical approaches. Lab exercises will focus on habitat assessment and population monitoring for local species in our region.	2.85
biol-402	In this course students will learn fundamental principles of ecosystem ecology and apply them to a variety of issues of global and regional concern. Traditional ecological knowledge systems will be introduced in context to their application to ecosystem ecology. Comparative analysis of terrestrial, freshwater, and marine ecosystems will highlight common themes, as well as ways in which different abiotic environments constrain or shape ecosystem structure and function. Lab exercises will focus on ecosystem characterization and classification in our region.	2.69
biol-403	This course is an advanced study of medical microbiology and immunology. It focuses on molecular mechanisms of microbial pathogenesis, and the human immune response.	2.55
biol-408	In this course students will explore the science and practice of restoring the structure and function of degraded ecosystems. Lectures will focus on applications of fundamental ecological principles in the context of restoration, coupled with case studies. In the lab component students will design and implement a campus or community-based restoration project.	2.88
biol-409	Global Change Biology considers interactions between humans and living systems, and the consequences for environmental change, past, present, and future. Major issues are addressed including habitat loss, globalization of biodiversity, ecosystem collapse, agricultural degradation of soil and water, marine resource depletion and climate change. Students practice environmental monitoring skills, consider case studies on global change manifest at the local level and develop strategies for adaptation and mitigation to address future global conditions. Traditional ecological knowledge systems will be introduced in context to their enhancement of western conservation and sustainability initiatives.	2.76
biol-412	Neurological disorders arising from damage, disease and degeneration, are a major and growing global health concern. In this seminar course, students will explore principles and patterns of nerve cell, tissue and organ damage associated with stress, disease, drugs, medications, ageing and head injury. Further, students will appraise risk factors, aetiologies, therapies and future trends with respect  to neurological disorders, and how to recognize and explain the mechanisms of pathologic changes specific to the central and peripheral nervous systems.	2.77
badm-101	This foundational course will broaden that view to provide an understanding of the business as a whole entity. Through a blend of theoretical concepts, practical applications and interactive discussions, learners will gain a fundamental understanding of what constitutes a business, including the types of businesses (e.g., service, manufacturing, non-profit) and the core functions that drive them (marketing, operations, finance, etc.). This course also aims to foster an understanding of the role of businesses in society, introduce a critical thinking approach, and inspire a passion for lifelong learning in the field of business.	1.88
badm-102	This course provides a solid quantitative foundation in finance and business mathematics. The course will focus on the concepts of time value of money, simple and compound interest applications, ratios and proportions and mathematics of merchandising. Additional topics relevant for financial decision making will also be covered. The student will utilize standard financial models in analysis, problem-solving, and decision-making for both personal and business financial activities. Financial calculators and/or computer spreadsheet applications will also be used to facilitate analysis and the decision-making process.	1.93
badm-106	The objective of this course is to allow the student to develop the necessary skills and conceptual tools to both understand and deal effectively with human behaviour in organizations. These skills are of at least two kinds:	1.86
badm-107	This course will introduce students to the components of the Canadian legal system, and will examine the effect of both common and statute law on business relationships. Students will gain exposure to the basic principles of Canadian business law through legal topics such as constitutional, tort, contract, property, corporate and employment law.	1.91
badm-201	This course presents a broad view of the role of Information Systems (IS) in Business. It places IS within the context of business activities by highlighting IS concepts, classifying IS technologies, exploring IS in businesses, and examining the development and management of IS as they provide the foundation to support and transform modern business enterprises. Students will apply the concepts and theories learned in their first year courses to solve integrated business problems. They will enhance their knowledge of IS by acquiring and using some business systems analysis and development skills and tools.	2.04
badm-202	This course explores the vital role of people management in shaping organizational effectiveness and culture. Participants will learn about organizational structures, systems, and design, as well as the impact of employment legislation on recruitment, orientation, training, and workplace wellness. Practical skills will be honed through effective interview techniques, creating training sessions, and coaching for performance. Students will master the art of fostering a positive workplace, recognizing and engaging employees, and handling challenging situations like difficult conversations and employee exits. By the end of this course, participants will contribute significantly to organizational success and employee well-being.	2.25
badm-204	This course will introduce you to the basic concepts, frameworks and methodologies useful to managers in crafting and executing business strategy. The course focuses on the fundamental conditions that enable a company to conceive, develop, and sustain a superior strategic position. We will introduce and apply analytical tools that will help you identify and systematically assess (1) the various environmental forces acting upon a company, (2) a company's internal source of competitive advantage, (3) the likely behavior of a company's rivals and (4) the long-term sustainability of a company's competitive advantage.	2.18
badm-206	An independent study course is a special course tailored to permit an individual student to pursue specific in-depth studies under the supervision and instruction of an Instructor. Independent study courses offer the chance to study subjects that would not otherwise be available to the student and to pursue unique topics independently and in depth. This course is intended to be a general survey of a specific area of business.	2.09
badm-207	In this course, students will examine and develop a working knowledge of the statutory and common law rules governing employment relationships in both union and non-union contexts and develop a working knowledge of the essential features of the British Columbia legislation governing employment contract, employment standards, human rights, employment equity and labour relations.	2.16
badm-210	This course provides a strong foundation in basic business statistics to enable students to convert solutions into practical business recommendations. It covers some of the most commonly used methods for: converting raw data into meaningful information (Descriptive Statistics), computing the chance that a certain event will occur in the future (Probability), drawing conclusions about a population based on sample data (Inferential Statistics), and determining whether a relationship between two variables exists and, if so, how strong this relationship is (Simple Linear Regression and Correlation).	2.14
badm-218	This course will engage students in a variety of team environments designed to develop practical leadership experience.	2.14
badm-225	This course will identify practical strategies for students to leverage their emotional intelligence in their education, the workplace, and their personal life. Students will learn how to balance their 15 emotional intelligence competencies to improve personal and interpersonal effectiveness.	2.28
badm-265	During this course, learners will evaluate the business skills and commitment necessary to successfully work in a small business. Students will identify personal traits, resources and goals as they explore the challenges and rewards of small business management. Students will learn the fundamentals of operating a small business from financial, legal, risk management and operational perspectives, investigate a variety of business models and examine varying degrees of social entrepreneurship, ethics and sustainability.	2.07
badm-268	Skills needed in problem solving and researching the small business environment will be learned and applied. Business owners, managers and would-be decision makers are encouraged to take this course. The instructor and guest lecturers from the business community will lead students through detailed aspects of business from finance to human relations. The production of the business plan will be discussed and part of a plan will be written.	2.2
badm-301	This course is designed to be of special interest to designers, managers, and operators of business processes. The student will be able to apply the principles and practices of contemporary operations management in various functions of businesses involved in the production of goods and services. The content includes topics such as measuring performance in operations and value chains, quantitative aspects of project management, Inventory management, Goods and Service Design, Quality, Statistical process control, Operations Scheduling and Sequencing.	2.44
badm-302	This course provides the student with a basic, functional understanding of current human resource management concepts and applications in developing small and larger business. Special emphasis will be placed on the concept of human resource management being the responsibility of all management, not just the Human Resources Management department.	2.66
badm-303	The purpose of this course is to advance students' understanding of the fundamentals of the employment relationship including the components of the industrial relations system. Core areas of study will be labour legislation, the union certification process, collective bargaining, employment contracts, dispute resolution, and the impact unions have on managing organizations.	2.52
badm-305	This applied, team-based course will provide students with an understanding of what personal leadership means and how they can be more effective leaders. Using an emotional intelligence (EI) lens and through the review of leadership models, self-discovery, and self-reflection, students will work individually, in teams, and with community leaders to recognize, understand, and apply their leadership style to a variety of situations.	2.44
badm-306	An independent study course is a special course tailored to permit an individual student to pursue specific in-depth studies under the supervision and instruction of an Instructor. Independent study courses offer the chance to study subjects that would not otherwise be available to the student and to pursue unique topics independently and in depth. In this course students will concentrate on depth of business knowledge, a grasp of the particular methods and approaches to business in a given field, and an understanding of the type of analysis appropriate to it.	2.65
badm-307	This course will expand upon the legal principles studies in BADM 107 including a more complex examination of constitutional, tort, contract, property, corporate and employment law. Students may also gain exposure to additional legal topics such as legal devices for securing credit, mortgages, labour, bankruptcy and insolvency, competition law, insurance law and creditor's remedies.	2.53
badm-310	This course provides the student with a theoretical foundation and practical application of commonly used techniques in statistical modelling, particularly Linear Regression and Time Series Analysis. Data analysis software is extensively used in these applications. Linear Programming Models will also be introduced and graphical and computer-generated solutions will be developed and analyzed.	2.53
badm-313	In this course, students will focus on the critical analysis of current business practices through the use of case studies to develop their integrative decision-making, negotiation and presentation skills. Major emphasis of this experience is to allow students to put existing business education skills into practice while learning new business skills.	2.44
badm-318	This course provides participants with the skills necessary for effective project management in local and international environments. The content includes concepts and solutions that support the planning, scheduling, budgeting, controlling, resource allocation and risk management required for successful completion of a project, in different business sectors. The students will have the opportunity to apply the learned theories in practice by using real case studies, projects and interacting with experienced project managers from various industries.	2.56
badm-320	This course will be offered from time-to-time to give students the opportunity to examine in-depth some aspect of business.  The course will build on business concepts to explore and more fully understand some specialized area of concern.  Normally such a course will take advantage of the short-term availability of some specific expertise such as faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.46
badm-321	This course will be offered from time-to-time to give students the opportunity to examine in-depth some aspect of business.  The course will build on business concepts to explore and more fully understand some specialized area of concern.  Normally such a course will take advantage of the short-term availability of some specific expertise such as faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.63
badm-322	In this course, students will co-create, plan, and implement a real-world team project designed to enhance the CapU experience for all School of Business students. This non-disposable project will allow the students to identify a need in CSB student community and to tailor the project framework to address this need. Students will be expected to draw upon the skills and knowledge acquired throughout their business program which may include proposal development, marketing, budgeting, project management, technology implementation, event planning, sponsorship development and other related business skills. The end result of term work will be the development and implementation of a sustainable initiative for the School of Business.	2.61
badm-323	This course will be offered from time-to-time to allow students to examine in-depth current issues related to business administration.  This course will be thematic rather than discipline based and will build on business concepts to fully explore and understand some current issue concern.  Normally such a course will take advantage of the short-term availability of some specific expertise such as faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.66
badm-324	This course will be offered from time-to-time to allow students to examine in-depth current issues related to business administration.  This course will be thematic rather than discipline based and will build on business concepts to fully explore and understand some current issue concern.  Normally such a course will take advantage of the short-term availability of some specific expertise such as faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.46
badm-325	This course will be offered from time-to-time to give students the opportunity to examine in-depth some aspect of business.  The course will build on business concepts to explore and more fully understand some specialized area of concern.  Normally such a course will take advantage of the short-term availability of some specific expertise such as faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.63
badm-329	This course will develop student understanding and knowledge in the application of methods to improve individual employee and larger organizational performance. In doing so, the course deals with performance management systems and measurement that matches employee contributions with organizational goals and strategies.	2.48
badm-332	This course provides upper level students with a broad understanding of and appreciation for the social economy - its unique management challenges as well as the opportunities to integrate traditional business functions with social, environmental or cultural goals. Innovative practices and new models of social entrepreneurship will be explored. Students will have the opportunity to gain practical experience working on a service-learning project with a non-profit organization.	2.54
badm-335	Employee training, orientation, onboarding and development are critical components in the workplace, and they give organizations a competitive advantage. This course gives students in-depth practical training skills useful in any of these roles and an overview of current training and development programs and practices. As part of their assessment, students will develop and create a training seminar using current best practices that is designed for new employees in the workplace.	2.58
badm-340	This course will provide career and job search coaching, feedback, tips, tools and techniques for career development through one-on-one/group meetings, class workshops, industry forums, and networking opportunities. The Business Internship experience is designed to provide a period (120 hours) of part-time, productive employment which may be paid or unpaid within industry, non-profit organizations or government. For the duration of the project, students are expected to reflect on how they have developed as an individual and to consider their own personal career and professional goals. Students are responsible for securing their own internship placement prior to or within the first two months of the course.	2.7
badm-345	This course is designed to provide a student with a period of full-time, productive, paid individual employment in industry, not-for-profit organizations, or government. The business work experience enables the student to apply classroom theory and skills to employment practices. For the duration of the work experience, students are expected to reflect on how they have developed as individuals and as part of a team. This further provides the student and the employer with tools for assessing the student's approach to full-time employment. Students are responsible for securing their own work experience placement, with the instructor's help, before the first week of the course.	2.55
badm-350	With an engaged client, students will train to represent the School of Business at local, national, and/or international competitions against many of the world's top students in this work-integrated learning course. The course will focus on the critical analysis of current business practices through the use of case studies to develop integrative decision-making skills and presentation skills. Students also collaborate to solve industry-client problems using qualitative and quantitative research. Students will be given regular one-on-one attention in order to receive feedback and specialized training from their faculty coach.	2.47
badm-365	This course provides insight into what is necessary to launch and operate your own business. Students will explore the entrepreneurial process, as it unfolds through idea generation and opportunity recognition, feasibility analysis, sales and marketing plan development, and financial model development. Students will develop an effective pitch and a business plan for a business or social enterprise they would like to explore.	2.65
badm-380	This course provides students with the skills needed to develop community empowerment projects that drive economic and social progress. Students are expected to draw upon knowledge acquired throughout their studies. In this work integrated learning course, students will work in teams and collaborate with local organizations to create and execute projects in their communities. The course aims to inspire and equip students to become responsible leaders who are committed to using their skills and resources to create a better world.	2.68
badm-382	This advanced human resource management course seeks to integrate the policies, procedures and methods covered in BADM 302 or BADM 303 with other functional areas which impact upon the management of human resources systems. Stakeholder assumptions about work-force characteristics, management philosophy, business strategy, laws and society will be examined via a combination of cases, readings, research and peer discussion	2.4
badm-385	In today's rapidly changing global landscape, businesses play a pivotal role in shaping a sustainable future. This course introduces students to sustainable business strategy, specifically how sustainability can be a strategic differentiator that can lead to improved environmental, social and financial performance.  This course delves into the essential principles and practices of sustainability as defined by the United Nations (UN) and other organizations. Throughout the course, participants will apply sustainability principles to real-world business scenarios.	2.45
badm-395	This course provides a comprehensive exploration of business ethics, focusing on ethical decision-making processes and responsible practices in various business contexts. Students will examine foundational concepts, ethical frameworks, and real-world case studies to develop critical thinking skills and a strong ethical foundation.	2.6
badm-406	An independent study course is a special course tailored to permit an individual student to pursue specific in-depth studies under the supervision and instruction of an Instructor. Independent study courses offer the chance to study subjects that would not otherwise be available to the student and to pursue unique topics independently and in depth. Students may be expected to participate in research symposiums or other activities to disseminate the knowledge gained through this course.	2.65
badm-440	This course will provide students with the opportunity to practice advanced career development skills such as network building, career progression planning, compensation negotiation and job prospecting. The Business Internship experience is designed to provide a period (120 hours) of part-time, productive employment which may be paid or unpaid within industry, non-profit organizations or government. For the duration of the project, students are expected to reflect on how they have developed as an individual and to consider their own personal career and professional goals. Students are responsible for securing their own internship placement prior to or within the first two months of the course.	2.95
badm-445	The student business work experience is designed to provide a second period of full-time, productive, paid employment in industry, not-for-profit organizations or government. The business work experience enables the student to apply classroom theory and skills to employment practices. For the duration of the project, students are expected to reflect on how they have developed as an individual and as part of a team as a means of developing a professional identity that highlights their distinctive self and to consider their own personal employment strategies while building professional networks. It provides the student, faculty, and the employer with a measuring device for assessing the student's approach to full-time employment. Students are responsible for securing their own work experience placement, with the assistance of the instructor, prior to the first week of the course.	2.83
badm-460	This capstone course integrates previous learning from the business degree program with an investigation of the interdependence of business and society, particularly corporate social responsibility, business ethics, socially responsive management, Indigenization, globalization and managing in an ever-changing environment. Students will develop skills in applied research to gain advanced knowledge on specific business topics culminating in the creation and sharing of a research project.	2.95
badm-465	This course offers a basic introduction to the decision analysis framework and explains how it can be used to facilitate and formalize the decision-making process. It describes techniques that managers can use to supplement their existing decision-making skills, how to decide when or whether to use a particular method, and how to implement it. The course is concerned with decision-making under conditions such as uncertainty, multiple objectives, multiple decision-makers or interest groups, large impacts, and long timelines.	2.68
badm-466	This course presents concepts and practical approaches involved in managing organizational change. This course will draw upon the concepts and skills learned in other business courses and will also provide students with the ability to blend hard and soft skills in the challenging role of leading change.	2.98
badm-469	The course provides Indigenous and non-Indigenous students with an in-depth understanding of Indigenous entrepreneurship. It focuses on how economic reconciliation is pursued through the creation and management of new ventures by and for Indigenous peoples that are responsive to the community, its values, traditions, culture, and socioeconomic needs. It explores how Indigenous peoples act on their inherent rights and assert sovereignty through social, cultural, spiritual, environmental and economic value creation activities as a means to design, develop and maintain Indigenous political, economic and social systems to promote community well-being while enabling members to engage in traditional, cultural and innovative economic activities.	2.92
badm-470	The course focuses on the formal decision-making process called Strategic Management. The primary course objective is to acquaint students with the process of developing a business strategy and how to implement that strategy. As a business management and administration student you must be able to integrate the knowledge and skills you have learned in other administration and business courses in areas such as accounting, finance, management, human resources, organizational behaviour, marketing and production. Business Policy and Strategy should be one of the last courses a student takes in their Bachelor of Business Administration degree program.	2.66
badm-475	Negotiation happens every day with friends, peers and/or potential employers. Negotiation is a necessary skill in personal and professional context. In this course students will learn simple and effective negotiation strategies using interest-based negotiation techniques. Students will practice negotiation strategies in small group discussions, activities using negotiation exercises. Students will learn to see the big picture when negotiating and how to get to win-win solutions.	2.62
bcpt-123	This course is designed to enable students to develop practical skills with Microsoft Office products (Excel, Word and PowerPoint). It includes businessrelated projects to practice the skills. Students will use Excel to create best visualization summary for a dataset, Word to create a consistent professional document, and use PowerPoint to make an interactive presentation.	1.99
bcpt-221	The course introduces the student to Adobe Dreamweaver, and Photoshop Website design software. The student will be able to create basic websites as applied to small and medium size businesses. Instruction on how to create and optimize images suitable for internet and website development software as applied in business communications.	2.25
bcpt-223	This course provides students with the knowledge and ability to implement advanced Excel and Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) in a wide range of business analyses.	2.23
bcpt-305	Information Systems (IS) are vital to the operations and management of all enterprises. The successful manager must know how to deploy and use these systems to effectively and efficiently optimize business processes and increase productivity. This course addresses three key inter-related themes that highlight the value of IS to run, grow and transform the business. These are: how IS can be used to achieve an advantage over the competition; how IS contributes to reshaping enterprise and consumer behaviours in an on-demand economy; and, IS strategies that managers must have for business agility, performance improvement, enhanced growth and sustainability.	2.43
bcpt-325	It is essential that a business leader understand the fundamental principles of effective planning for information security and disaster recovery considering the present and future global environment.  The goal of this course is to cover business managerial aspects of security and disaster recovery by presenting methods to identify vulnerabilities and implement appropriate countermeasures to prevent and mitigate failure risks for the business enterprise.	2.59
bcpt-326	This course provides an overview of the advanced skills necessary to design effective interactive Web sites.	2.64
bcpt-330	This course emphasizes hands-on, experiential learning. It presents a range of concepts, skills, tools, techniques and methodologies so students can become effective business systems analysts who can collaborate with information technology workers to create robust information systems for business. Students will learn the framework of the systems development life cycle (SDLC) model as it is used for identification and development of business requirements, business processes, analysis and design, as used in the construction, deployment and ongoing maintenance of complex information systems. The course will also investigate alternatives to acquiring software used to satisfy business goals, objectives and needs.	2.48
bcpt-404	This course presents a deep view of management analytics which includes data visualization, data mining and information dissemination approaches, skills, tools and techniques required to run, grow and transform the Business. With this knowledge, students will incorporate the concepts and theories learned in other School of Business courses, to solve integrated business problems. Students' understanding of advanced business analytics toolkits will be strengthened as they learn how to acquire, mine, analyze, disseminate and apply voluminous data sets (big data/social media data) to decision making in today's on-demand economy.	2.62
bcpt-420	This course presents a deep view of business information ethics, privacy, security and sustainability in business. Students will be introduced to concepts and frameworks surrounding the definitions, core topics and issues of ethics in such areas as information technology, big data and artificial intelligence (AI). Students learn about the business systems that are most at risk regarding privacy, security and sustainability issues, as well as the importance of an organization-wide approach to these issues. Students also learn the standards that business managers must follow to balance sustainable environmental, social and economic responsibilities, with their obligations to stakeholders.	2.7
bues-305	With a special emphasis on the North American business context, the course intends to develop students problem-solving, and decision-making skills, enabling students to interpret various business scenarios. Students will gain an understanding of essential business functions including, management, marketing, finance, and operations. They will also be able to understand the foundational knowledge necessary to navigate the North American business landscape.	2.62
bfin-141	This course is an introduction to financial accounting concepts and business principles. Students will analyze and record business transactions and create financial statements, and they will be exposed to a broad range of topics including business organizations, asset management, liability reporting and financial statement analysis. (CPA transferable with BFIN 142).	1.91
bfin-142	Students will apply generally accepted accounting principles to the establishment and maintenance of accounting systems, including the preparation, analysis and interpretation of financial statements. (CPA transferable with BFIN 141).	1.84
bfin-193	This course is an accelerated combination of BFIN 141 and BFIN 142, particularly beneficial for students who have a strong foundation in math or previous exposure to accounting. Students will apply financial accounting concepts to analyze and record business transactions for a variety of business organizations and prepare financial statements. Students will be exposed to a broad range of topics including asset management and liability and investment reporting to provide an analytical basis upon which to intelligently interpret financial statements.	1.93
bfin-241	In this practical financial management course, students study financial management techniques, develop project management skills, and apply this knowledge to business decisions. Topics in this course include: evaluating business performance, valuation of financial assets, obtaining financing, managing working capital and capital budgeting. Contemporary financial issues are discussed throughout this course. (CPA transferable with BFIN 350).	2.24
bfin-244	This course introduces students to the specialized area of management accounting. It provides an overview of controls affected internally by management using the tools of budgets, costing and analysis. Planning for an organization will be examined from both the capital and operations perspectives.	2.2
bfin-246	Students should expect to develop an understanding of: (a) the environment of financial reporting and the conceptual framework; (b) the accounting for assets, revenues and expenses in greater depth than in prior accounting courses; (c) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); and (d) accounting standards for private enterprises (ASPE).  (CPA transferable with BFIN 347).	2.2
bfin-249	The goal of this course is to cover the concepts and practices of computerized accounting using QuickBooks software. Topics will include system concepts, bank reconciliations, payroll services, projects, data entry processes, time system management, and report information representation for decision-making.	2.15
bfin-306	In this course students will learn the six steps of personal financial planning including goals setting, personal financial statements, debt management, mortgages, as well as savings and retirement plans in Canada. Time value of money calculations will be used throughout to assess progress towards	2.61
bfin-321	This course covers investment and investment management principles, including common financial planning and investment concepts utilized to improve investment decision making and overall investment portfolio performance. The main topics include investment theory, financial markets and institutions, financial assets and their related valuations, and mutual funds. Group projects will enable students to implement investment strategies and analysis, and apply investment decision-making and performance assessment tools.	2.64
bfin-331	Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to analyze and understand the environment surrounding an audit engagement including identification of the users of the financial statements and the potential legal exposure to the auditor. Students will gain a strong understanding of the control environment and the effect on audit risk. Other assurance engagements are also covered in this course.	2.52
bfin-341	A study of organizational decision making and planning using accounting tools. Topics include the nature of accounting controls, common control methods, measures of management performance, and the role of the management cost accountant. (CPA transferable with BFIN 342).	2.65
bfin-342	A more in-depth study of subjects covered in Cost Accounting I. Cost determination for manufacturing operations, planning and cost control systems, performance evaluation methods, and strategic decision-making methods. (CPA transferable with BFIN 341).	2.55
bfin-347	Given descriptions of economic events, the student should be able to determine the appropriate method of accounting and the acceptable methods of financial statement presentation in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); and accounting standards for private enterprises (ASPE). (CPA transferable with BFIN 246).	2.41
bfin-348	The goal of this course is to cover Data Analytics and Information Systems for Accounting and Finance. Topics will include system concepts, information representation for decision making, value of information, organizational system needs to meet objectives, quality of information for decision making, data and information modelling, management of information systems infrastructure and architecture, system life cycle, and risks and controls. Data Analytics and Information Systems (DAIS) competencies are embedded in the Chartered Professional Accountant competency map. This course is to supplement the following five technical competency areas: Financial Reporting, Strategy and Governance, Management Accounting, Finance and Taxation.	2.5
bfin-350	The content of this course concentrates on the development of analytical and conceptual skills for financial decision-making. The course places emphasis on capital asset pricing models, capital budgeting and capital structures. (CPA transferable with BFIN 241).	2.57
bfin-351	This course familiarizes the student with the Canadian income tax system as it applies to corporations, share-holders, and unincorporated businesses, so that the student can identify potential tax problem areas, complete the basic compliance forms, and appreciate its impact on some business decisions. (CPA transferable).	2.52
bfin-353	This course provides students with a practical and sound understanding of the application and theoretical foundation of international finance in a corporate environment, particularly multinational finance, for enterprises as well as international finance for trade and investment.	2.56
bfin-386	In this course students will learn to evaluate risk exposures faced by individuals and small businesses and apply various life, disability, health, and other insurance products to address these risk exposures. Thorough coverage of insurance products and calculations to determine client needs will be addressed through case scenarios. Taxation and the context of the Canadian financial planning landscape will be covered as well as an introduction to business ethics as it relates to the industry.	2.58
bfin-411	The goal of this course is to introduce the topics that are traditionally deemed advanced accounting in nature in a manner that will prepare the students for their practice in accounting and in meeting the entrance requirements of professional accounting programs. Topics will include accounting for business combinations, foreign currency transactions and translations as well as accounting in the not-for-profit arena. (CPA transferable).	2.93
bfin-412	Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to analyze and understand the environment surrounding an audit engagement including identification of the users of the financial statements and the potential legal exposure to the auditor.  Students will gain a strong understanding of the control environment and the effect on audit risk.  Other assurance engagements are also covered in this course. (CPA transferable with BFIN 331).	2.97
bfin-431	This course covers the use of management accounting information to support decision making and specifically focuses on planning, performance evaluation and control systems consistent with the current realities of the business environment, including global competition, innovation, growth of non-profit and service sectors, increased competitiveness and total quality management. It also addresses the behavioural aspects of management accounting. (CPA transferable)	3.0
bfin-451	This course familiarizes the student with the Canadian income tax system as it applies to corporations, shareholders, partnerships, trusts and estates so that the student can identify potential tax problem areas, complete the basic compliance forms, and appreciate its impact on some business decisions.	2.93
bfin-486	This course will require the student to give informed advice on moderately complex personal financial planning scenarios. Technical knowledge areas will include debt, insurance, investment, with emphasis on financial analysis, retirement, estate planning and taxation. Relevant retirement and estate planning tools will be used. The Financial Planning Capstone is an integrated financial planning course requiring the preparation and presentation of a professional industry level financial plan covering at least four of the six financial planning components. Cases from industry clients will be sourced for this project.	2.8
bmkt-161	This is an overview course with primary focus on marketing products and services to the ultimate consumer. The student gains insight into the complex and interdependent variables involved in developing successful marketing strategies. The strategic marketing planning process is introduced, along with the specific concepts and principles involved in the four key components of the marketing mix: Product, Price, Place, Promotion.	1.8
bmkt-203	This is an overview course with a primary focus on marketing products and services to the ultimate consumer. The student gains insight into the complex and interdependent variables involved in developing successful marketing strategies. The strategic marketing planning process is introduced, along with the specific concepts and principles involved in the four key components of the marketing mix: Product, Price, Place, Promotion.	2.28
bmkt-260	Social media has profoundly changed the online communication and marketing landscape. With the advent of social networks, virtual communities and mobile computing, more and more people are participating in conversations online. This presents significant opportunities, as well as numerous challenges for marketers. The course explores these new marketing and technology trends and provides a broad overview of key social media strategies, tactics, metrics, and tools.	2.15
bmkt-261	This course will examine the advertising industry from both client and service (agency) side with focus on integrated marketing communications (IMC), as practiced by marketing managers. With the erosion of traditional media, the use of digital and interactive tools, plus growing privacy concerns, marketers are continuously striving to break through the clutter to effectively communicate with their target audiences. The process begins with understanding the consumer and related motivators, then establishing an effective message, supported by media placement and metrics. Students will explore and apply industry relevant skills by developing advertising strategies and programs supported by a media plan, within a client-agency environment. As a Work-Integrated Learning experience, students will participate in an advertising client campaign simulation project.	2.27
bmkt-262	This course will apply contemporary principles of strategic marketing to event management. Students will develop depth of knowledge in event curation, planning, design, marketing, human and financial resource management, sponsorship, risk management and program evaluation. As an experiential learning experience, students will develop an event based on real world constraints.	2.3
bmkt-263	Communication basics, including effective listening, probing, problem finding and solving, and creativity will be covered. Specific techniques of professional selling will be examined including prospecting, qualifying, and contracting prospects. The course will also explore, in depth, the organization and management of sales activities. Role play simulations will be a key component of the learning process.	2.17
bmkt-315	The course develops advanced analytical skills necessary to evaluate and implement online strategic options. These include valuation of opportunities, such as start-up investment, acquisition, partnerships or online/offline synergies, and implementation issues, such as fulfillment, information technology management, and customer service. The course theory will be complemented with practical projects to demonstrate understanding of e-business and technology principles  the planning of an e-business venture and implementation of a prototype Web application; and the development of a personalized, digital portfolio.	2.54
bmkt-316	When we associate different attributes and benefits to similar products and services, it is often the result of branding. The objective of this course is to better understand our relationships with brands. In this context, students will assess strategic branding decisions including industry, ethical and social issues, globalization and innovation. Tools, frameworks and models of branding will be explored in the context of an industry project to assess brand positioning, build brand equity and manage brands over time. As an experiential learning experience, students apply branding frameworks to develop a brand audit project.	2.47
bmkt-317	This course provides an overview of mobile and Web technologies and infrastructure including cloud computing, social media networks and the major mobile operation systems, Windows, Android, Blackberry and Apple iOS for the growing iPhone and iPad market. Students will gain an understanding of how these technologies both compete and integrate together, the key business and social drivers, and the process for building a mobile or Web application.	2.65
bmkt-360	An introductory course indicating how to make the most out of marketing research. Through the practical applications of a research project, students will learn the elements of research design, basic methods of collecting data, analysis and reporting. Applications of Canadian and American research will be studied.	2.64
bmkt-364	The purpose of this course is to facilitate an understanding of the motivations to buy, use and dispose of consumer products. The purchase process is more than an exchange. The path taken from recognizing a need, to deciding how we will complete a transaction, reveals much about our attitudes about ourselves and the world, and how we and others see us. Ultimately, everything we do and feel exemplifies how we perceive ourselves. This course offers key practical insights for students to develop an appreciation of the influence of consumer behavior on the ethical and responsible marketing of products, services, and experiences.	2.4
bmkt-365	Students will learn how to effectively analyse marketing problems and opportunities and develop successful marketing strategies. This course explores the concepts of strategic marketing planning, collecting and analyzing marketing information, developing competitive advantage, segmentation and target marketing, branding and positioning, ethics and social responsibility, developing and managing long-term customer relationships. The focus will be on utilizing this Work-Integrated Learning experience to analyze a business situation, develop strategic decision-making skills, and apply hands on tactical solutions to case challenges and an industry project.	2.62
bmkt-367	This is a course dealing with the development of an advertising campaign (CAP-ADS). Students will study campaign strategy including how it is planned and organized in cooperation with the production, marketing, sales and finance departments as well as the use of outside agencies. Some time will be spent with advertising research as a pre- and post-control factor.	2.59
bmkt-369	The course is designed to provide an in-depth, practical and up-to-date look at all major aspects of digital marketing, including selling products and services online, search engine optimization, social media marketing, and executing pay per click advertising. The course links digital marketing theory and practice. Upon completion of this course, students will be able to apply digital marketing principles, techniques and tools to develop more effective and complete marketing programs.	2.6
bmkt-370	The course explores new marketing and technology trends and provides a broad overview of key social media strategies, tactics, metrics and tools. It is grounded both in theory and practice, and the students will be required to participate in social networks, forums, virtual worlds, blogs and micro-blogs, applying social media tactics within an overall marketing strategy. Students will also be expected to reflect, discuss and share through peer to peer teaching, their learning from application based activities as well as readings from industry leaders.	2.53
bmkt-401	This course is an upper level elective that provides marketing specialists with the opportunity to consolidate previous learning through a case-based application course.	2.79
bmkt-405	This course provides students with an opportunity to apply concepts and skills learned from their marketing studies through a student team-based project to solve a real world marketing problem in a client organization.	2.92
bmkt-408	New products are key drivers of corporate growth and profitability. Companies today incorporate rigorous product development processes as product development is costly with a high failure rate. This course will equip students with a new product process including areas of: strategy, concept generation, evaluation, development and launch plan. This course has a strong practical, analytical and applications focus.	2.96
btec-111	This course will review the fundamental principles of grammar, spelling, and punctuation.  Basic letter and memo writing will be covered.	2.05
btec-112	This course will train students to apply the correct techniques of written communications to their proofreading, verifying, and editing.	1.95
btec-115	This course will review basic math skills, and train students to apply math skills in business situations.	1.94
btec-117	This course introduces students to the theory of accounting and the basic accounting cycle.  Emphasis is placed on correct analysis, accuracy, and thoroughness as well as independent decision making.	2.03
btec-118	Students apply their knowledge of accounting principles and procedures to a computerized environment. Emphasis is placed on the correct analysis and input of general ledger, accounts receivable, and payable entries using Simply Accounting.	1.88
btec-124	This course will provide a working knowledge of Windows and Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Access, PowerPoint and Excel) and build keyboarding speed and accuracy.	1.99
btec-125	This course will provide the students with a working knowledge of Windows, Word and Powerpoint.  The students will produce professional-looking, basic business documents using Word and Powerpoint.	1.92
btec-126	This course will provide the students with a working knowledge of Excel and Access.  The students will produce professional-looking, basic business documents using Excel and Access.	2.06
btec-149	This course will provide a working knowledge of Sage 50 and QuickBooks accounting applications, and the expansion of MS Excel software skills.	1.9
btec-199	This course consists of lectures, class and group discussions, preparation of a job search portfolio, writing and delivering scripts to initiate contact with employers, developing a system to organize job search, student skill demonstration of job search strategies and interview techniques. Upon successful completion of all other Accounting Assistant Certificate requirements, students will then complete a two-week job site practicum as part of this course.	1.89
btec-211	This course utilizes the computer to improve the student's quality of grammar, spelling, and word usage, and to develop and/or improve composition skills.	2.05
btec-215	A hands-on course to develop proficiency in the use of a modular computerized accounting program for completing accounting procedures, including accounts receivable, accounts payable and general ledgers.	2.14
btec-217	This course is a continuation of BTEC 117 with emphasis on merchandising companies and explaining balance sheet issues.	2.24
btec-220	This course provides students with business simulations handling accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll and bank reconciliations.	2.05
btec-251	This course will provide students with an understanding of interpersonal communication techniques that can positively influence job performance.  Students will practice in-person and telephone responding, customer service, and issue resolution skills in a supportive environment.	2.02
btec-252	The objective of this course is to allow the student to develop the necessary skills and conceptual tools to both understand and deal effectively with human behaviour in organizations. These skills are of at least two kinds: Interpersonal, that is, relating more effectively with other individuals and groups, and analytical, to be able to perceive and understand situations accurately, and make effective decisions based on this understanding.	2.1
csff-010	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to University level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the	3.34
caps-499	This capstone course is a culminating undergraduate experience that invites students to reflect upon, integrate, and synthesize the knowledge, skills, and values acquired during their academic studies and to prepare for graduation and beyond. Students will create learning or showcase portfolios for a purpose and audience of their own choosing. During this process, students will select, revise, and prepare one scholarly essay, research project or creative project completed as part of their coursework for publication on their digital portfolio.	2.76
cacc-002	Students learn basic computer skills that focus on word processing, e-mail and Internet skills. This course is student centred rather than curriculum driven. Lessons and assignments are integrated with other CAC courses and students are encouraged to proceed at their own pace. The instructor promotes a non-threatening atmosphere designed to help students overcome any anxiety they may have with this technology. Peer tutors are utilized when possible to assist the instructor in providing as much one-on-one support as possible.	2.85
cacc-004	Students learn basic computer skills that focus on word processing, e-mail and Internet skills. This course is student centred rather than curriculum driven. Lessons and assignments are integrated with other CAC courses and students are encouraged to proceed at their own pace. The instructor promotes a non-threatening atmosphere designed to help students overcome any anxiety they may have with this technology. Peer tutors are utilized when possible to assist the instructor in providing as much one-on-one support as possible.	3.39
cacc-006	Students learn basic computer skills that focus on word processing, e-mail and Internet skills. This course is student centred rather than curriculum driven. Lessons and assignments are integrated with other CAC courses and students are encouraged to proceed at their own pace. The instructor promotes a non-threatening atmosphere designed to help students overcome any anxiety they may have with this technology. Peer tutors are utilized when possible to assist the instructor in providing as much one-on-one support as possible.	2.91
cacc-008	Students learn basic computer skills that focus on word processing, e-mail and Internet skills. This course is student centred rather than curriculum driven. Lessons and assignments are integrated with other CAC courses and students are encouraged to proceed at their own pace. The instructor promotes a non-threatening atmosphere designed to help students overcome any anxiety they may have with this technology. Peer tutors are utilized when possible to assist the instructor in providing as much one-on-one support as possible.	3.0
cacc-010	Students learn basic computer skills that focus on word processing, e-mail and Internet skills. This course is student centred rather than curriculum driven. Lessons and assignments are integrated with other CAC courses and students are encouraged to proceed at their own pace. The instructor promotes a non-threatening atmosphere designed to help students overcome any anxiety they may have with this technology. Peer tutors are utilized when possible to assist the instructor in providing as much one-on-one support as possible.	2.95
cacc-012	Students learn basic computer skills that focus on word processing, e-mail and Internet skills. This course is student centred rather than curriculum driven. Lessons and assignments are integrated with other CAC courses and students are encouraged to proceed at their own pace. The instructor promotes a non-threatening atmosphere designed to help students overcome any anxiety they may have with this technology. Peer tutors are utilized when possible to assist the instructor in providing as much one-on-one support as possible.	3.21
cace-002	Students work on developing and refining their reading, writing, and critical thinking skills as a way of preparing them for further study in other courses. The nature of the program is self-paced and individualized study in a supportive, nurturing environment, with group work when appropriate.	3.3
cace-004	Students work on developing and refining their reading, writing, and critical thinking skills as a way of preparing them for further study in other courses. The nature of the program is self-paced and individualized study in a supportive, nurturing environment, with group work when appropriate.	3.28
cace-006	Students work on developing and refining their reading, writing, and critical thinking skills as a way of preparing them for further study in other courses. The nature of the program is self-paced and individualized study in a supportive, nurturing environment, with group work when appropriate.	3.39
cace-008	Students work on developing and refining their reading, writing, and critical thinking skills as a way of preparing them for further study in other courses. The nature of the program is self-paced and individualized study in a supportive, nurturing environment, with group work when appropriate.	3.28
cace-010	Students work on developing and refining their reading, writing, and critical thinking skills as a way of preparing them for further study in other courses. The nature of the program is self-paced and individualized study in a supportive, nurturing environment, with group work when appropriate.	3.04
cace-012	Students work on developing and refining their reading, writing, and critical thinking skills as a way of preparing them for further study in other courses. The nature of the program is self-paced and individualized study in a supportive, nurturing environment, with group work when appropriate.	3.17
cacl-002	Non-English speaking students are provided with basic language skills in a friendly, relaxed atmosphere. Skills include grammar, listening, speaking, pronunciation, reading, vocabulary building and writing. The focus is on meaningful communication and, through pair and small group activities, learners are encouraged to be active participants and decision-makers. Although the classroom is multi-level (low beginner to low intermediate) and learners' individual needs are taken into consideration, it is usually an instructor-led rather than self-paced classroom. This course prepares students for ESL courses above the beginner level.	3.5
cacl-004	Non-English speaking students are provided with basic language skills in a friendly, relaxed atmosphere. Skills include grammar, listening, speaking, pronunciation, reading, vocabulary building and writing. The focus is on meaningful communication and, through pair and small group activities, learners are encouraged to be active participants and decision-makers. Although the classroom is multi-level (low beginner to low intermediate) and learners' individual needs are taken into consideration, it is usually an instructor-led rather than self-paced classroom. This course prepares students for ESL courses above the beginner level.	3.13
cacl-006	Non-English speaking students are provided with basic language skills in a friendly, relaxed atmosphere. Skills include grammar, listening, speaking, pronunciation, reading, vocabulary building and writing. The focus is on meaningful communication and, through pair and small group activities, learners are encouraged to be active participants and decision-makers. Although the classroom is multi-level (low beginner to low intermediate) and learners' individual needs are taken into consideration, it is usually an instructor-led rather than self-paced classroom. This course prepares students for ESL courses above the beginner level.	2.83
cacl-008	Non-English speaking students are provided with basic language skills in a friendly, relaxed atmosphere. Skills include grammar, listening, speaking, pronunciation, reading, vocabulary building and writing. The focus is on meaningful communication and, through pair and small group activities, learners are encouraged to be active participants and decision-makers. Although the classroom is multi-level (low beginner to low intermediate) and learners' individual needs are taken into consideration, it is usually an instructor-led rather than self-paced classroom. This course prepares students for ESL courses above the beginner level.	2.89
cacl-010	Non-English speaking students are provided with basic language skills in a friendly, relaxed atmosphere. Skills include grammar, listening, speaking, pronunciation, reading, vocabulary building and writing. The focus is on meaningful communication and, through pair and small group activities, learners are encouraged to be active participants and decision-makers. Although the classroom is multi-level (low beginner to low intermediate) and learners' individual needs are taken into consideration, it is usually an instructor-led rather than self-paced classroom. This course prepares students for ESL courses above the beginner level.	3.22
cacl-012	Non-English speaking students are provided with basic language skills in a friendly, relaxed atmosphere. Skills include grammar, listening, speaking, pronunciation, reading, vocabulary building and writing. The focus is on meaningful communication and, through pair and small group activities, learners are encouraged to be active participants and decision-makers. Although the classroom is multi-level (low beginner to low intermediate) and learners' individual needs are taken into consideration, it is usually an instructor-led rather than self-paced classroom. This course prepares students for ESL courses above the beginner level.	3.11
cacf-002	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to university level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the children while the parents are in class or studying. In addition, the students/parents meet as a group with an instructor/counsellor at regularly scheduled times to discuss topics such as parenting, goal setting, stress management and conflict resolution. A supportive parent group, counselling, and long-term educational career planning are integral components of the program.	3.0
cacf-004	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to university level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the children while the parents are in class or studying. In addition, the students/parents meet as a group with an instructor/counsellor at regularly scheduled times to discuss topics such as parenting, goal setting, stress management and conflict resolution. A supportive parent group, counselling, and long-term educational career planning are integral components of the program.	3.33
cacf-006	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to university level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the children while the parents are in class or studying. In addition, the students/parents meet as a group with an instructor/counsellor at regularly scheduled times to discuss topics such as parenting, goal setting, stress management and conflict resolution. A supportive parent group, counselling, and long-term educational career planning are integral components of the program.	3.4
cacf-008	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to university level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the children while the parents are in class or studying. In addition, the students/parents meet as a group with an instructor/counsellor at regularly scheduled times to discuss topics such as parenting, goal setting, stress management and conflict resolution. A supportive parent group, counselling, and long-term educational career planning are integral components of the program.	3.26
cacf-010	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to university level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the children while the parents are in class or studying. In addition, the students/parents meet as a group with an instructor/counsellor at regularly scheduled times to discuss topics such as parenting, goal setting, stress management and conflict resolution. A supportive parent group, counselling, and long-term educational career planning are integral components of the program.	3.37
cacf-012	This program assists parents who wish to upgrade or continue their studies, but need childcare and support during the transition to university level study. The on-campus childcare centre provides a nurturing environment for the children while the parents are in class or studying. In addition, the students/parents meet as a group with an instructor/counsellor at regularly scheduled times to discuss topics such as parenting, goal setting, stress management and conflict resolution. A supportive parent group, counselling, and long-term educational career planning are integral components of the program.	2.87
cacm-002	Math upgrading is provided in a supportive, multi-level, self-paced classroom. Some group work is facilitated when appropriate. Students can work on basic math skills and algebra in preparation for other college courses, or prepare to write the GED or college placement tests.	2.92
cacm-004	Math upgrading is provided in a supportive, multi-level, self-paced classroom. Some group work is facilitated when appropriate. Students can work on basic math skills and algebra in preparation for other college courses, or prepare to write the GED or college placement tests.	2.89
cacm-006	Math upgrading is provided in a supportive, multi-level, self-paced classroom. Some group work is facilitated when appropriate. Students can work on basic math skills and algebra in preparation for other college courses, or prepare to write the GED or college placement tests.	3.29
cacm-008	Math upgrading is provided in a supportive, multi-level, self-paced classroom. Some group work is facilitated when appropriate. Students can work on basic math skills and algebra in preparation for other college courses, or prepare to write the GED or college placement tests.	3.27
cacm-010	Math upgrading is provided in a supportive, multi-level, self-paced classroom. Some group work is facilitated when appropriate. Students can work on basic math skills and algebra in preparation for other college courses, or prepare to write the GED or college placement tests.	3.1
cacm-012	Math upgrading is provided in a supportive, multi-level, self-paced classroom. Some group work is facilitated when appropriate. Students can work on basic math skills and algebra in preparation for other college courses, or prepare to write the GED or college placement tests.	3.15
caco-002	During orientation, students meet with instructors individually to discuss their educational and career goals and plan the steps needed for effective participation in the learning process. These steps might include adjusting schedules to balance home and school, and making arrangements for childcare. Students are assisted with the initial university application and registration, and ongoing support is provided to guide the students throughout the term, in their pursuit of personal and educational success.	3.32
caco-004	During orientation, students meet with instructors individually to discuss their educational and career goals and plan the steps needed for effective participation in the learning process. These steps might include adjusting schedules to balance home and school, and making arrangements for childcare. Students are assisted with the initial university application and registration, and ongoing support is provided to guide the students throughout the term, in their pursuit of personal and educational success.	3.24
caco-006	During orientation, students meet with instructors individually to discuss their educational and career goals and plan the steps needed for effective participation in the learning process. These steps might include adjusting schedules to balance home and school, and making arrangements for childcare. Students are assisted with the initial university application and registration, and ongoing support is provided to guide the students throughout the term, in their pursuit of personal and educational success.	3.23
caco-008	During orientation, students meet with instructors individually to discuss their educational and career goals and plan the steps needed for effective participation in the learning process. These steps might include adjusting schedules to balance home and school, and making arrangements for childcare. Students are assisted with the initial universtiy application and registration, and ongoing support is provided to guide the students throughout the term, in their pursuit of personal and educational success.	3.5
caco-010	During orientation, students meet with instructors individually to discuss their educational and career goals and plan the steps needed for effective participation in the learning process. These steps might include adjusting schedules to balance home and school, and making arrangements for childcare. Students are assisted with the initial university application and registration, and ongoing support is provided to guide the students throughout the term, in their pursuit of personal and educational success.	3.39
caco-012	During orientation, students meet with instructors individually to discuss their educational and career goals and plan the steps needed for effective participation in the learning process. These steps might include adjusting schedules to balance home and school, and making arrangements for childcare. Students are assisted with the initial university application and registration, and ongoing support is provided to guide the students throughout the term, in their pursuit of personal and educational success.	3.06
cacs-002	This course provides students with skills that will help them be successful students at the university, productive members of their communities, and active citizens of Canada. The curriculum is partially student-generated, focusing on topics of current interest, and may be enhanced by field trips and guest speakers. Sessions might include introduction to university procedures and services, developing effective learning strategies, supporting and encouraging participation in community activities, learning about municipal, provincial, Canadian, and First Nations governments, or discussion of such topics as health, exercise, diet, and stress management.	3.5
cacs-004	This course provides students with skills that will help them be successful students at the university, productive members of their communities, and active citizens of Canada. The curriculum is partially student-generated, focusing on topics of current interest, and may be enhanced by field trips and guest speakers. Sessions might include introduction to university procedures and services, developing effective learning strategies, supporting and encouraging participation in community activities, learning about municipal, provincial, Canadian, and First Nations governments, or discussion of such topics as health, exercise, diet, and stress management.	2.94
cacs-006	This course provides students with skills that will help them be successful students at the university, productive members of their communities, and active citizens of Canada. The curriculum is partially student-generated, focusing on topics of current interest, and may be enhanced by field trips and guest speakers. Sessions might include introduction to university procedures and services, developing effective learning strategies, supporting and encouraging participation in community activities, learning about municipal, provincial, Canadian, and First Nations governments, or discussion of such topics as health, exercise, diet, and stress management.	3.24
cacs-008	This course provides students with skills that will help them be successful students at the university, productive members of their communities, and active citizens of Canada. The curriculum is partially student-generated, focusing on topics of current interest, and may be enhanced by field trips and guest speakers. Sessions might include introduction to university procedures and services, developing effective learning strategies, supporting and encouraging participation in community activities, learning about municipal, provincial, Canadian, and First Nations governments, or discussion of such topics as health, exercise, diet, and stress management.	2.9
cacs-010	This course provides students with skills that will help them be successful students at the university, productive members of their communities, and active citizens of Canada. The curriculum is partially student-generated, focusing on topics of current interest, and may be enhanced by field trips and guest speakers. Sessions might include introduction to university procedures and services, developing effective learning strategies, supporting and encouraging participation in community activities, learning about municipal, provincial, Canadian, and First Nations governments, or discussion of such topics as health, exercise, diet, and stress management.	3.02
cacs-012	This course provides students with skills that will help them be successful students at the university, productive members of their communities, and active citizens of Canada. The curriculum is partially student-generated, focusing on topics of current interest, and may be enhanced by field trips and guest speakers. Sessions might include introduction to university procedures and services, developing effective learning strategies, supporting and encouraging participation in community activities, learning about municipal, provincial, Canadian, and First Nations governments, or discussion of such topics as health, exercise, diet, and stress management.	2.82
cact-002	Students are assisted in the process of developing transition skills as they move from high school, employment or unemployment to the post secondary setting. The university environment is demanding and requires a large amount of self-motivation and personal responsibility. Students are helped to design and implement plans for personal and academic success. Topics and areas of instruction include: decision making and problem solving, stress and time management, goal setting and career/educational planning, self advocacy and empowerment, and communication and conflict resolution skills.	3.5
cact-004	Students are assisted in the process of developing transition skills as they move from high school, employment or unemployment to the post secondary setting. The university environment is demanding and requires a large amount of self-motivation and personal responsibility. Students are helped to design and implement plans for personal and academic success. Topics and areas of instruction include: decision making and problem solving, stress and time management, goal setting and career/educational planning, self advocacy and empowerment, and communication and conflict resolution skills.	3.06
cact-006	Students are assisted in the process of developing transition skills as they move from high school, employment or unemployment to the post secondary setting. The university environment is demanding and requires a large amount of self-motivation and personal responsibility. Students are helped to design and implement plans for personal and academic success. Topics and areas of instruction include: decision making and problem solving, stress and time management, goal setting and career/educational planning, self advocacy and empowerment, and communication and conflict resolution skills.	3.43
cact-008	Students are assisted in the process of developing transition skills as they move from high school, employment or unemployment to the post secondary setting. The university environment is demanding and requires a large amount of self-motivation and personal responsibility. Students are helped to design and implement plans for personal and academic success. Topics and areas of instruction include: decision making and problem solving, stress and time management, goal setting and career/educational planning, self advocacy and empowerment, and communication and conflict resolution skills.	3.47
cact-010	Students are assisted in the process of developing transition skills as they move from high school, employment or unemployment to the post secondary setting. The university environment is demanding and requires a large amount of self-motivation and personal responsibility. Students are helped to design and implement plans for personal and academic success. Topics and areas of instruction include: decision making and problem solving, stress and time management, goal setting and career/educational planning, self advocacy and empowerment, and communication and conflict resolution skills.	3.05
cact-012	Students are assisted in the process of developing transition skills as they move from high school, employment or unemployment to the post secondary setting. The university environment is demanding and requires a large amount of self-motivation and personal responsibility. Students are helped to design and implement plans for personal and academic success. Topics and areas of instruction include: decision making and problem solving, stress and time management, goal setting and career/educational planning, self advocacy and empowerment, and communication and conflict resolution skills.	3.36
cdco-021	This course is intended for students who are new to computers. They will gain confidence and competence in performing basic computer operations and understand concepts and vocabulary they will encounter when using, buying, and discussing computers. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.3
cdco-031	This course is intended for students who have a basic understanding of computers. Students will gain competence in intermediate computer skills: using the internet, word processing, spreadsheets, and presentation programs.  They will understand concepts and vocabulary they will encounter when using, buying, and discussing computers.The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	2.98
cden-001	This course will introduce students to basic reading, writing, discussion and listening skills. Students will learn to write for a variety of purposes using learned sight words, simple sentence structure and basic punctuation. This course will prepare students for CDEN 002. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.17
cden-002	This course will help students to learn and practice reading strategies to increase their fluency. Students will write for a variety of purposes using assigned vocabulary, basic sentence structure and punctuation. This course will prepare students for CDEN 003. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.27
cden-003	This course will teach students to increase their reading strategies. Students will learn to summarize texts as well as distinguishing fact versus opinion. The course will introduce students to writing with correct verb tense, sentence and paragraph structures. This course will prepare students for CDEN 004. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.22
cden-004	This course will prepare students to understand and reflect on a variety of reading material and to differentiate between literal and inferential meaning. Students will learn to write for a variety of purposes using compound words, contractions, possessives and basic punctuation. Students will also be introduced to note taking. This course will prepare students for CDEN 005. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.09
cden-005	This course teaches students to interpret, summarize and analyse the material they are reading including a short novel. Students will learn about the writing process and learn to write and edit paragraphs. This course will prepare students for CDEN 006. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	2.81
cden-006	This course will teach students to discuss, summarize, interpret and form opinions about a selected material. The course will prepare students to write expanded, detailed paragraphs with a variety of punctuation and to proofread written work. This course will prepare students for CDEN 031. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.47
cden-031	This course assists students to obtain a basic understanding and competence in written communication. Students will learn to combine sentences into clear paragraphs and compositions in preparation for higher level English courses. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	2.86
cdma-001	This fundamental math course provides an introduction to number sense, addition, subtraction, estimating, time and shapes. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.33
cdma-002	In this fundamental math course, students will learn number sense, addition, subtraction, multiplication, making change, time and perimeter. The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	2.8
cdma-003	In this fundamental math course, students will learn Number Sense, Multiplication, Division, Change, Time and the Metric System.  The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.05
cdma-004	In this fundamental math course, students are introduced to Decimals and Measurement.  The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	2.86
cdma-005	In this fundamental math course, students work with decimals and fractions.  The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.16
cdma-006	In this fundamental math course, students are introduced to ratio, rate, proportion, percent and statistics.  The course may be offered in both self-paced and paced formats and delivered in various locations in the Capilano region by the Community Development and Outreach Department.	3.46
cecp-021	The goal of Career Planning is to enhance the life and employment readiness skills of adult learners. Students will be prepared to pursue occupational and educational goals in a changing and diverse world. The topics include career exploration, communication skills, personal awareness, living skills, job search, interpersonal skills, and career management. Course content includes opportunities to move towards Reconciliation.	2.83
cecp-031	The goal of Career Planning is to enhance the life and employment readiness skills of adult learners. Students will be prepared to pursue occupational and educational goals in a changing and diverse world. The topics include career exploration, communication skills, personal awareness, living skills, job search, interpersonal skills, and career management. Course content includes opportunities to move towards Reconciliation.	3.45
cecp-041	The goal of Career Planning is to enhance the life and employment readiness skills of adult learners. Students will be prepared to pursue occupational and educational goals in a changing and diverse world. The topics include career exploration, communication skills, personal awareness, living skills, job search, interpersonal skills, and career management. Course content includes opportunities to move towards Reconciliation.	2.98
cecp-051	The goal of Career Planning is to enhance the life and employment readiness skills of adult learners. Students will be prepared to pursue occupational and educational goals in a changing and diverse world. The topics include career exploration, communication skills, personal awareness, living skills, job search, interpersonal skills, and career management. Course content includes opportunities to move towards Reconciliation.	2.95
chem-030	This course is designed for those students who have had no previous chemistry, and who wish to go on in sciences. A study of atoms, molecules, the mole, chemical formulas, ionic and covalent bonding, balancing equations, simple stoichiometry problems, solutions, acids, bases and salts, equilibrium, gas laws.	3.07
chem-101	This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of chemistry including the concepts of nomenclature, stoichiometry, states of matter, chemical bonding, thermochemistry, equilibria, and nuclear science.	1.89
chem-110	This is a course for students who plan to pursue a science degree. Students will review and expand their understanding of atomic structure, periodic trends, chemical bonding and molecular structure. This course also provides an introduction to organic chemistry, including organic reactions.	1.84
chem-111	This is a course for students who plan to pursue a science degree. Students will review and expand their understanding of stoichiometry and the gaseous state; kinetics and reaction mechanisms; chemical equilibrium; acids, bases, salts and buffers; thermodynamics; solubility; redox and electrochemistry.	2.02
chem-130	In this course students will obtain a qualitative understanding about the chemical aspects of food, nutrition, drugs, our environment, and the chemical issues that confront us in the media. Thus the students will learn to develop an awareness of the influence of chemistry in our society.	2.08
chem-154	A course for engineering students only. A study of stoichiometry, atomic structure and bonding, the solid state, chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium, thermodynamics and electrochemistry.	1.83
chem-200	A study of nomenclature, structure, and spectroscopy of alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, alcohols, ethers and alkyl halides. Also a study of infrared spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance.	2.26
chem-201	Aromatic chemistry, aldehydes, ketones, acids and their derivatives, amines, nitro, azo, diazo and related compounds, heterocyclics, carbohydrates, protein chemistry, polymers, and natural products.	2.24
chem-204	In this course, students will review and expand their understanding of chemical kinetics and thermodynamics with an emphasis on applications in the life sciences. Students will also be introduced to a variety of spectroscopic methods that are used for chemical structure determination.	2.18
chem-205	An introduction to the properties, bonding, structure and reactivity of coordination complexes and main group compounds. Modern spectroscopic methods, solid state chemistry and bio-inorganic chemistry will also be covered. The laboratory component emphasizes the synthesis of inorganic compounds and the use of modern analytical instruments.	2.24
chem-206	The basic principles and techniques of analytical chemistry, including neutralization, complex-formation and gravimetric reactions. Various types of chromatography will be introduced along with an introduction to visible and ultraviolet spectroscopy, atomic absorption spectroscopy and electrochemical methods of analysis.	2.18
chem-211	This course focuses on the structure, bonding and chemical reactivity of common organic functional groups with an emphasis on the reactions and chemical properties of biologically important molecules.	2.18
chem-215	Biochemistry is the study of the molecules and chemical reactions responsible for the phenomenon of life. This course introduces students to structure-function relationships in fundamental biological macromolecules and the key pathways involved in carbohydrate metabolism and homeostasis, with an emphasis on human biochemistry. Topics include: amino acid chemistry; protein structure, function, and regulation; protein purification and analysis; enzymes and enzymology; nucleic acid structure and function; gene expression; fundamental principles of metabolism; pathways of cellular respiration and glucose homeostasis. This course includes work-integrated learning experiences.	2.19
chem-250	An introduction to the properties, bonding, structure and reactivity of transition metals and main group metals. An examination at production of these metals and their impact on the environment and their role as catalysts in many industrial processes.	2.28
chem-251	This course is an introduction to chemical thermodynamics, kinetics and equilibrium for engineering students. The laws of thermodynamics will be examined with applications toward numerous chemical reactions as well as phase equilibria and phase diagrams.	2.13
chem-252	An introduction to the properties, bonding, structure and reactivity of numerous functional groups such as alkyl halides, alkenes, aromatics, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones and carboxylic acids. Current industrial processes will be presented with an emphasis on the synthesis and structure of polymers.	2.29
chem-300	Since the harnessing of fire over two million years ago, the ability of humans to exploit chemistry has been one of the most important factors in establishing our species as the dominant life form on the planet.  This course will critically examine the benefits and perils associated with this central role of chemistry in human society. Topics covered will include chemistry and the environment, chemistry of life, medicinal chemistry, and others selected by the instructor.	2.44
chem-304	This course provides a broad overview of the chemical basis of important environmental issues including ozone depletion, the enhanced greenhouse effect, heavy metal poisoning and water pollution. Environmental impact of past and current industrial processes as well as green chemistry solutions will be discussed.	2.59
chem-311	This course focuses on the application of spectroscopic techniques to the identification of organic and inorganic compounds. Topics include ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance. The application of these important techniques to environmental chemistry and biomedical science will be discussed. In the laboratory, students will have the opportunity to synthesize, purify and characterize compounds using the methods listed above.	2.56
chem-315	This course introduces students to metabolism: the collection of chemical processes by which cells derive energy from their surroundings and use this energy to make the building blocks of life. The major metabolic pathways involved in the synthesis and breakdown of important biological molecules are explored, along with the mechanisms of regulating these pathways in the body. Links between errors in metabolism and human disease are also discussed.	2.49
chem-404	Green chemistry is the design of chemical products and processes that eliminate the use or generation of hazardous substances. This course will introduce students to the philosophy of green chemistry and the impact of sustainable technologies on the environment and society. Students will learn the philosophy of green chemistry. The laboratory will focus on sustainable chemistry practices and green alternatives to conventional experimental methods.	2.72
chem-411	In this course, we will examine the chemistry behind the small molecules that affect human health. Topics include the principles of drug design, pharmacology and pharmacokinetics, drug delivery, approval and regulation of new drugs, bioactive natural compounds (including antibiotics and vitamins), and the use of chemical agents in disease detection and diagnosis.	2.51
chin-100	Introduction to Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of pronunciation in Mainland China. For complete beginners (spoken and written) in Chinese. This course starts with basic tones and pronunciation to prepare students to speak the language. It also teaches basic grammar and the writing of about 150 Chinese characters.	1.86
chin-101	This course stresses conversational skills and listening comprehension using situational dialogues. Students will increase their knowledge of grammatical structures and Chinese characters. They will also learn how to use a Chinese dictionary as a tool for further study.	2.05
chin-200	This course is for students who know the basics of Mandarin phonetics and grammar and approximately 300 Chinese characters, or for those who have completed CHIN 100 and 101. It teaches more Chinese characters, focusing on reading and writing of simple Chinese texts. Chinese literature is also introduced.	2.22
chin-201	Continues the work of CHIN 200.	2.09
chin-300	This course is the continuation of CHIN 201.  It is designed to improve and develop students' acquisition of Mandarin using listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills at an advanced level.  The course introduces literary texts on Chinese culture, social, and business customs through textbooks and reference materials from current media and other sources.  A thematic approach is adopted throughout the course.  It broadens students' knowledge of Chinese characters, complex sentence structures, essay writing and verbal communication in Chinese.  It also develops skills using Chinese in presentations and discussions for general and career-related purposes.	2.45
cine-118	This course focuses on professional, entry level curriculum and prepares students for cinematography positions in low budget film and video production.	1.87
cine-119	This course builds on the skills acquired during CINE 118 to prepare students for cinematography positions in low budget film and video production.	2.07
cmns-100	This course is designed to equip students with the skills to write clear, well-organized correspondence and workplace documents for ongoing professional development and academic success in applied courses; explore effective writing styles, strengthen clarity and build confidence in their written communication; enhance their ability to read their own written work critically and edit it to a standard appropriate for a professional workplace; create and organize a career portfolio for a positive on-line presence and for networking and future career-building and to devise, polish and deliver effective short presentations appropriate for workplace peers and managers.	1.99
cmns-112	This course seeks to foster a spirit of critical inquiry as to how communication and meaning-making processes relate to the structures and experience of everyday life. The course introduces students to problems, issues, and debates in media, communication technologies, communication systems, symbolic exchange, interpersonal and intercultural communication.	1.89
cmns-115	Students learn various communications skills necessary for success in the animation industry. Content includes presentation, writing and research skills, and scriptwriting for animation.	2.1
cmns-131	This course introduces students to business writing for the documentary industry. Students will write correspondence, proposals, fact sheets, production notes, media releases, and rsums using business formats.	1.83
cmns-132	This course examines the emergence and importance of mass media in society. It explores theoretical considerations and approaches in communication studies, including the role of mass media in democracy, political economy of media, critical studies and media structures. A number of media industries are examined, including print, broadcast, film and the Internet. This is a writing intensive course.	1.98
cmns-133	This course introduces students to business writing for the visual effects industry. Students will write correspondence, proposals, production notes, media releases and resumes using business formats.	1.83
cmns-152	This writing for the workplace course covers letters, memoranda, and reports as well as a review of English basics in the context of business writing.	1.94
cmns-154	This writing course for Outdoor Recreation and Tourism Management students focuses on reports, memoranda, correspondence, media releases, and oral presentations for the industry setting.	2.0
cmns-159	This course emphasizes English basics (grammar, spelling, punctuation, correct usage), proofreading skills, and business writing.	2.0
cmns-164	This course develops communication and academic skills needed for international students to continue their tourism education and understand the workplace environment. Topics will cover team, interpersonal, verbal and nonverbal, problem solving and critical thinking skills as well as notetaking, summarizing, outlining, and proposal writing skills.	2.02
cmns-174	This course in writing and speech for wilderness-leadership professionals covers business correspondence, spoken presentations, and proposals.	2.05
cmns-185	This course focuses on the dynamics of organizing material, overcoming speech anxiety and developing poise as a speaker in a variety of contexts. Attention to research, voice training, nonverbal communication, and strategies for structuring and timing of presentations are key components of this course. Students benefit from feedback from others, and learn to give and receive constructive feedback as they refine their ability to project, to organize their thoughts, and to address audience needs.	2.05
cmns-190	This course covers developing story ideas, pitching, researching, reporting and non-fiction writing for publication in print or online. The course emphasizes the use of story-telling devices and interviewing skills to make written pieces effective and compelling. The format is meant to simulate the process of publication in the real world. The focus is on understanding the medium and the audience, and learning by doing. Students will write articles that can serve as ePortfolio writing samples.	1.93
cmns-209	This course explores the development of media technologies in relation to key social, cultural and political challenges faced by human societies. It focuses on the development of media prior to the emergence of digital technologies in the 20th century, considering the role that orality, writing systems, pre- and post-print literacies, acoustic and visual media and mass media have played as both expressions of historical potentials and foundations for social, political and cultural change.	2.03
cmns-211	This course is a continuation of CMNS 209 History of Media 1, addressing the historical contexts and development of key technical components of digital media - computing, network telecommunication, app-based social media and machine learning/artificial intelligence. Its goal is to enhance students' digital literacy by providing a depth of understanding of the social, political, economic and cultural contexts and drivers out of which digital media emerge and that shape their development and impacts.	2.26
cmns-220	This course focuses on researching, organizing, writing, and editing extensive business documents including reports, proposals, memoranda, and persuasive writing for marketing purposes. Emphasis is on clear style and logical organization.	2.02
cmns-222	This course guides students in an exploration of ideology in connection with media, popular culture, art and expressive practices. Introducing a range of critical approaches to the critique of communication, culture and ideology from liberalism to Marxism, post-structuralism and media theory, the course supports students in developing their analytic and critical thinking skills through a focus on questions of power and creative expression in various media and cultural contexts.	2.11
cmns-223	CMNS 223 is intended to familiarize students with the role of designers and illustrators in business, and to define a broad resource of opportunities as they acquire the vocabulary, conceptual skills, and writing competencies appropriate to a wide variety of professional contexts in illustration and design.	2.13
cmns-224	This course focuses on music as a medium of expression, industrial organisation, technological development, creative practice and social communication. Areas of exploration will include the innovation and impact of sound recording and acoustic media, the emergence and mutations of the music industry and its role in shaping the processes of musical production and consumption, the political aspects of music subcultures and musical aesthetics, and the political dimensions of music as a mode of communication.	2.2
cmns-231	This course introduces students to print, broadcasting, film, the Internet, and other cultural industries in Canada and internationally. It explores the business structure and economics of principal sectors, and key regulatory and policy issues in their social, political, cultural, and global contexts. It utilizes cultural theory and political economy approaches to study and critically analyze these industries and their role in society.	2.13
cmns-235	This course introduces students to the institution and industry of making news in our society.  It focuses on the social, political, professional, economic and technological forces which both shape and constrain news production in modern Canadian news organizations. Students are expected to monitor print, broadcast and online news on a regular basis throughout the course.	2.16
cmns-236	This course examines the historical development and the political-economic and cultural dynamics of television as one of the key media of the past 100 years. Using frameworks derived from cultural studies and television studies, the course will explore the world that television created and the ways in which this medium continues to shape contemporary culture.	2.11
cmns-241	This course introduces students to the main software programs used in the magazine publishing industry for text, page and image formatting for print and digital publishing. Familiarity with computers and knowledge of word processing programs are recommended.	2.05
cmns-250	The course includes the examination of technical reports and the study of the role of technical writing in corporate and scientific settings.  It covers technical writing for science, engineering and the professions and emphasizes definitions, process analysis, writing instructions, resume preparation, and an extended formal report.	2.17
cmns-253	This course introduces students to a basic understanding of key aspects of digital media functionality, development and design as a basis for engaging with social, political and economic issues raised by digital media in everyday life. It aims to enhance students' digital literacy by connecting what happens off the screen to operations occurring behind the screen, connecting key social issues with the economic and technological foundations of digital media.	2.17
cmns-255	This course examines concepts, research and practice that capture how interpersonal communication shapes our social environment and inner lives. It explores interaction occurring in a variety of contexts (self, family, romantic relationships, group, and work interactions) using socio-psychological, sociocultural, critical theory, and social neuroscience tools. The course also cultivates personal reflection and application of interpersonal skills.	2.27
cmns-260	This course serves as an introduction to the practices and methods of applied quantitative research. Students will exercise their curiosity and intellects as they explore and apply scientific research methodology through readings, discussions, and lectures. The course provides for a deepening of students' understanding of theoretical and practical frameworks for conducting quantitative research using a variety of statistical methods as applied within communication studies.	2.2
cmns-261	The purpose of this course is to help Communication students develop skills in finding and interpreting print and electronic documents. It is a course in which students learn by doing practical research assignments. In this experiential course, students will discuss and analyze topics such as database research techniques, web page evaluation, documents and secondary sources, archives and libraries, and government executive and legislative documents.	2.24
cmns-262	The course introduces students to a variety of qualitative research methods utilized within communication and media studies. It also explores the philosophical, ethical, and political backgrounds against which the social construction of knowledge in understandings of communication, media, and society takes place. Led by the instructor, students will approach qualitative research as a set of techniques for gathering and evaluating data relating to problems used in an ethically responsible, inclusive knowledge-building practice.	2.05
cmns-270	Using photography as a focus, this course explores vision as a physiological and psychological phenomenon, examines the history and use of the camera and develops a number of perspectives for analyzing images. Students examine different aspects of visual media, including typography, newspapers, magazines, advertising, movies, television/video and computer images, analyzing the framed world in mass media representation.	2.06
cmns-285	This course provides students with the persuasive tools that experienced presenters employ to achieve their objectives. Students will learn to craft a strong delivery, even in difficult circumstances, and use storytelling skills to make their presentations more interesting and effective. Students will prepare presentations for special situations such as international conferences, convention exhibits, and collaborative projects.	2.14
cmns-295	This course is an introduction to the study of advertising as social communication. Advertising will be examined as a system for social reproduction, rather than the psychological effects or marketing strategies of individual ads and campaigns.  The key objective of the course is to provide a historical perspective on the development of consumer capitalism and its distinctiveness from other social and cultural formations.	2.02
cmns-305	In today's increasingly digitally connected and knowledge-based economy, communication skills are crucial for professional success across a wide array of sectors. Grounded in concepts that prepare them for the North American workplace, the course inspires students to cultivate proficiency and confidence in workplace and interpersonal communication, including written correspondence, reports, proposals, presentations and digital projects.	2.44
cmns-322	This course is designed to apply communication theory and practices to a specific global communication industry; videogames. This course is a comparative introduction to the history and theory of videogames as cultural artifacts and provides a deeper understanding of the historical, political, cultural factors that come into play in the complexity of a seemingly simply activity of game playing. This course aims to introduce students to academic discussions on a creative work in new digital forms, including: gamification; narratology and ludology; fandom; game law and the industry; the new gaming economy and game journalism and criticism.	2.59
cmns-330	This course introduces students to ethical questions around communication at the interpersonal, intercultural, organizational and societal levels. It situates this exploration in the context of the role communication plays in fostering democratic societies and how the organization of communication relates to some of the key values of such societies - equality, autonomy, self-determination, mutual respect, and co-operation.	2.52
cmns-331	This course introduces students to the development of legal and political frameworks around information and communication from the printing press to the Internet, with a focus on areas legal and policy development - censorship, security and privacy, intellectual property, and access to information. The course examines the contexts in which policy and legal frameworks develop, the various positions of stakeholder groups and the problems and challenges raised for legislators and policy-makers.	2.62
cmns-333	This course introduces students to problems, issues, and practices in the area of communication and conflict management. The course seeks to cultivate critical inquiry and personal reflection into how communication processes relate to the experience of conflict at the interpersonal, small and large group, and international level. It will also foster the development of personal skills and strategies for dealing with different levels of conflict in a variety of settings.	2.65
cmns-351	This course introduces the view from the editor's desk in popular media. How are newspapers, magazines and websites put together? How do editors interact with publishers, sales staff and writers to ensure a publication's success? What imperatives are driving today's industry, and the changes in it? Students will learn how a range of editorial departments function, and will get hands-on training to help them edit others' work to industry standards.	2.7
cmns-352	This course examines theories and perspectives on leadership, teamwork, diversity, globalization, and ethics in organizational communication.  In addition, this course provides opportunities for students to develop an increased understanding of; the communication process in organizations; an ability to sense accurately the meanings and feelings of oneself and others in the organization; improved skills in interacting, conflict management, and decision making; and a well-defined sense of organizational as well as interpersonal ethics.	2.59
cmns-353	This course guides students in an examination of methodologies in the social construction of technology  a set of critical approaches in media and technology studies that highlights the role of communication and meaning-making both in technological development and in the formation of effective responses to the challenges produced by a technological society. We will address both the foundations of common sense thinking about technology and engage in producing case study analyses that illustrate the potential for addressing technological change ethically, equitably and from diverse perspectives.	2.53
cmns-354	CMNS 354 develops advanced skills in written and verbal communications for the tourism sector workplace including proposal and report writing, group presentation skills, strategic communication plans, and the production of a media kit to support a new tourism product, service, or event.	2.68
cmns-355	This course is designed to develop critical inquiry skills around communication and meaning-making processes related to intercultural experiences, relationships and social justice. Students will develop a multi-level understanding of the complex role of communication in intercultural exchange, including key issues and theory and how they impact, and are impacted by, culture and ethnicity. This will include personal reflection on the student's experience with others and developing skills to bridge cultural divisions.	2.47
cmns-358	This course takes a historical and cultural perspective to examine children and young people's relationship with media. Students will engage with critical debates and media studies research (qualitative and quantitative) regarding the role that media (toys, books, comics, film, TV, digital media e.g. videogames and social media) have played in creating the growing field of youth media culture.	2.53
cmns-360	This course provides an overview of the range of skills and strategies required for working in corporate, community and government communication fields. It focuses on information and media design, and utilizes a case-study approach in which students work both alone and in groups in simulated communication projects. The course covers topics such as relations with the public, media and government, internal organizational communication, working with stakeholders/investors, crisis communication, corporate advertising and public branding.	2.66
cmns-370	This course considers the role of photography as a central form of visual communication within the history of mass media, from its invention in the nineteenth century up to the present day. The questions guiding our study will be: what evidence does the photographic image provide when it comes to understanding the violent fabric of modern social life? Is photography a witness to truth, or an opportunity for fantasy?	2.61
cmns-371	This course covers magazine design from both theoretical and practical points of view. Topics include an historical overview of magazine design in North America, a survey of the various roles and tasks of art directors, photographers, photo editors and designers in magazines, and the four elements in publication design: images, typography, colour, and layout.	2.42
cmns-380	This course provides an in depth analysis of a variety of expressive cultural forms - music, fashion, television, fine art, and film - and provides a context in which students can engage in the craft of evaluation, analysis and critique of such forms for diverse media outlets. Its aim is to bring a critical awareness of popular culture and a set of expressive, editorial and critical skills together in the production of works of cultural criticism.	2.53
cmns-390	Students will analyze the communication methods used by organizations to engage their target audiences primarily through publishing a body of written digital content. The emphasis will be on long-form, journalistic writing intended to foster a relationship with readers. Students will have the opportunity to hear from professionals in the digital media industry. The written pieces that students produce can serve as writing samples in their ePortfolio.	2.54
cmns-395	This course examines the way in which communication mediates the relationship between organizations in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors and the publics that they serve. It differentiates between the basic communication goals of organizations in each of these sectors, guides students in the critical analysis of public and media relations campaigns, and raises questions of ethics in the communications processes conducted by organizations to promote their activities or agendas.	2.41
cmns-400	This course is an industry practicum arranged by the student with faculty assistance. Classroom sessions prepare the student for the practicum, and further preparation is provided in co-requisite courses.	2.57
cmns-405	Following on the learning objectives activated in CMNS 305, this course applies further intercultural teaching strategy to encourage students to advance confidently towards overall fineness in business communication. As students devise, apply and upgrade their written and verbal communication, they journalize their progress in a digital portfolio that platforms their achievement and aids in their pursuit of management roles in international business.	2.8
cmns-412	This course will provide students with the opportunity to examine in depth some aspect of or specialized area of inquiry or professional practice within the field of communication and media studies not otherwise covered by the core curriculum of the Capilano University School of Communication.	2.98
cmns-413	This course will provide students with the opportunity to examine in depth some aspect of or specialized area of inquiry or professional practice within the field of communication and media studies not otherwise covered by the core curriculum of the Capilano University School of Communication.	2.93
cmns-415	The aim of this course is to help students develop disinformation and media literacy through exploring the spread of disruptive information, whether it be disinformation or misinformation, in mass and social media. Students will learn how to use fact checking tools, such as Snopes, create codebooks to conduct primary research on disinformation, be introduced to the principles of topic modelling to study disinformation, and practice discourse and content analysis in this field. Students will study the effects of disruptive information on their personal lives as well as local, national, and international communities to develop a filter for truth and safely navigate information on mass or social media, unlearn or correct existing biases, avoid being passively influenced by the rumours and conspiracy theories in the media, and learn how to stop and report disinformation.	2.51
cmns-430	This course helps student develop the skills necessary to engage in productive, respectful dialogues on political, social, and religious issues to promote a greater understanding and freedom of expression. Students will study democracy in the context of free speech versus hate speech through conducting content and discourse analyses of a selection of debates on local, national, and international issues, with emphasis on topics relating to colonization, climate change, religious freedoms, and gender identity.	2.57
cmns-431	In this course engages students in an extended case analysis of an area of communication policy and/or law. Such cases could include Canadian content regulations, digital copyright (or copyleft), open license or open source, the impacts of changing national security policies on access to and collection of information, or privacy legislation in the digital era. Each group will be guided in and responsible for the production of a report and presentation highlighting their findings.	2.85
cmns-433	This course engages students in a project-based, case study approach to the analysis of crisis situations from the standpoint of communication factors and information flows. It asks students to develop a communication plan around a crisis situation; to analyse documentation in order to understand the nature of the crisis; and to suggest solutions to mitigate future crises.	2.9
cmns-453	This course examines technology not as a diverse set of tools, but as a form of power conditioning our relationship with nature, one another and ourselves. It examines specific areas of development  artificial intelligence, biotechnology  genomics, social media, and others  in connection with key challenges faced by technological societies  environmental and economic sustainability, discrimination and equity, destabilisation of democracy, with a focus on strategies for addressing these key problems through improved literacy  public communication.	2.75
cmns-462	This course introduces students to the practical processes of research design and practice through an exploration of case studies in audience research, media impacts and the symbolic dimensions of everyday life. The case studies will give students the opportunity to engage critically in evaluating research design, methodology and ethical issues in particular areas of communication study, with an eye to developing a proposal for their own original theses (in CMNS 499).	2.77
cmns-490	This course facilitates the production of a prototype magazine intended to showcase the research, writing and editing skills introduced in previous CMNS courses. Working collaboratively, students choose a theme, a target audience and editorial voice for a proposed consumer, trade or contract magazine of their choice, and then plan, write and edit the content.	2.94
cmns-495	This asks students to research and liaise with a non-profit organization, political party or public advocacy group to identify its key message and to define its target audience and stakeholders. Project groups will design strategies to give the message top of mind presence through appropriate and widespread publicity. Groups will plan and simulate a news conference, including a prepared statements and media training for the speaker.	2.61
cmns-498	Under the supervision of an instructor, students engage in a work placement in some area of professional communication practice. Students will keep reflective journal of their work experience, produce two interim progress reports, and present a final report linking their work experience to their program-based learning.	2.59
cmns-499	Under the supervision of a faculty member, students conduct and present original research in an area of communication studies in the form of a short project. Students will present and defend their project for completion of their degree. Students will select an appropriate CMNS faculty member to support and direct them in the production of an original research project in an area of communication studies. Students will present a summary of their research at the annual Student Research Symposium as a mandatory part of the completion of this course.	2.76
clsc-100	In a highly interactive class environment, students will learn the history, principles and models of community development, with an emphasis on its role in empowering disenfranchised communities. Through in-depth class discussions, they will explore the relationship between community development theory and their own lived experience in community and with community organizations including Indigenous communities and their organizations. Classes will be offered in community settings using in person, online and mixed modes of delivery. Students with volunteer experience in community organizations who want to move into paid work are encouraged to apply.	1.87
clsc-101	This course will explore: defining leadership; transformational and collective leadership; leadership as art; and a leader's role in supporting creativity and mentorship. Students will learn to understand and analyze leadership roles including their own; understand collective leadership; recognize and support leadership qualities in team members; identify current leadership challenges faced by community organizations and the skills required to navigate those situations; and apply creative leadership principles.	1.87
clsc-102	This course will examine the creation and maintenance of relationships in community development work. Students will both study and practice skills for working collectively through inclusive facilitation, nonviolent communication and dealing with conflict in community work. Discussion will focus on how culture, individual histories and power affect community dynamics and will cover tools for managing these critical issues in community development.	2.06
clsc-103	In this classroom-based and work integrated learning course, students will be exposed to how a nonprofit organization works and their role in the community. Based on students' interests, they will gain experience in a specific area of focus such as: literacy, health promotion, community economic development, community arts and food security. In the classroom, students will explore what a nonprofit organization is; roles and responsibilities of volunteers; work planning for voluntary roles; relationship building and communication for mentorship; teamwork and team building; evaluation and assessment skills; and presentation skills.	2.06
clsc-105	This course provides an overview of the roles and responsibilities of community workers and skills in community organizing of social issues within diverse populations. Upon successful completion of the course, students should be able to facilitate participatory community processes and consensus-building, then communicate decisions and program plans in written and oral reports and including Indigenous ways of knowing. Classes will be offered in community settings using in person, online and mixed modes of delivery. Students with volunteer experience in community organization who want to move into paid work are encouraged to apply.	1.9
clsc-200	This course will focus on the use of social media and digital tools for social change at a community level. Students will be introduced to new media through a community development lens. They will explore the role of storytelling and social media in community work throughout history and currently; the basics of Internet use including safety, etiquette and writing for on-line uses; how local practitioners are using digital tools; and how to successfully use social media to create social change themselves.	2.18
clsc-201	This course will explore the values, goals and assumptions of community-based research and its methodologies. Students will learn about overall concepts of research; how community-based research relates to community issues and needs as well as ethical considerations; how to do basic data analysis and a range of research methodologies, including literature searches, surveys, interviews, community mapping, focus groups, arts-based research, and participatory action research. Students will also complete and present a small research project.	2.23
clsc-202	This course will provide an in-depth understanding of outcome-based planning and management in a local and global context. Students will be introduced to planning for social change and explore Outcome Measurement Framework (OMF) construction in an interactive and creative way. They will explore concrete tools for how to use an OMF as a management tool for planning, budgeting, communications, proposals and monitoring. Students will apply their learning by developing an OMF for their own organization.	2.27
clsc-203	In this classroom-based and work integrated learning course, students will be exposed to how a nonprofit organization works and their role in the community. Based on students' interests, they will gain experience in a specific area of focus such as: literacy, health promotion, community economic development, community arts and food security. In the classroom, students will explore roles and responsibilities of boards and committees; non-profit governance including constitutions and policies; relationship building and communication for mentorship; team work and team building; evaluation and assessment skills; and presentation skills.	2.0
clsc-204	This course will provide students with an opportunity to coalesce their learning about community leadership in social change and focus it on a theme and/or project of their choice. Themes could include but are not limited to food security, environmental sustainability, community healing, adult literacy, community facilitation, health promotion, etc. Students will work interdependently, supervised and supported by their instructor; and collaboratively with a community partner where appropriate. They will design, research, and develop a specific project of interest and participate in assessing and evaluating the project and their own performance.	2.05
comp-101	An introduction to the basic concepts underlying computer hardware, software, operating systems, networks, applications, and coding, for students with little or no previous experience. Students also explore some of the social and ethical implications arising from the pervasive use of digital information technologies. The goals of this course are to gain a broad understanding of the science of computing, to develop practical skills applied to the use of the Internet and common computer applications, and to become actively engaged with both the promise and challenges of digital technology.	1.88
comp-106	An introduction to the basic concepts of hardware, software, and computer programming using Sparki robots, for students with little or no experience. Students learn to apply fundamental engineering design and programming principles, and are exposed to a variety of topics including robotics and automation, operating systems, and digital communications. The course includes an examination of social issues arising from the application of robotics and automation technologies.	1.81
comp-107	An introduction to game development and programming in a 3D animation environment.  This includes computer program design, implementation and testing in a high-level, object-oriented programming language. The course also exposes students to problem solving, algorithms, event-driven programming, the building of 3D animated games, the use of application programming interfaces (APIs), and graphics.	1.89
comp-108	Entry level Computing Science course. This course introduces the student to the basic concepts of information technology and computer applications. The student will learn how to use a microcomputer operating system effectively with emphasis on file management. Upon completion of the course the student should be proficient in using and customizing various software packages including word processor, spreadsheet, presentation software and data base software. The course also covers basic uses of the Internet and issues of security and privacy connected to it.  The course serves as a preparation for the International Computer Driving License certification.	1.92
comp-115	An introduction to the principles and practices of writing quality code, for students with little or no prior coding experience. Students learn to apply a suite of fundamental principles and strategies for thinking clearly about problems, managing complexity, and designing creative, structured solutions. Students learn to develop the data structures and algorithms to express their solutions, to evaluate and test their designs, and to code them in a modern, high-level programming language, such as Python.	2.09
comp-120	An introduction to computational techniques applied to Engineering problems.  The primary focus of the course is on computer systems, the development of algorithms, and computer program design, implementation, and testing.  The course also exposes students to the wider discipline of computer science, with topics including computer hardware and software, representation and manipulation of data, numerical analysis, and device interfaces.	2.08
comp-121	An introduction to the development of algorithms, computer program design, program implementation and testing in a high-level, object-oriented programming language. The course also exposes students to event-driven programming, the building of graphical user interfaces (GUIs) and the use of application programming interfaces (APIs) and graphics.	1.97
comp-126	A study of the application of object-oriented programming concepts to the design of software of an intermediate level of difficulty. Advanced object-oriented programming features and techniques are employed. Introduction to data structures, sorting and searching algorithms.	1.99
comp-134	An introduction to the Java programming language for students with previous programming experience in another high-level language. Topics include the Java language and API, object-oriented design and programming, event-driven programming, and graphical user interfaces.	2.09
comp-135	This short course introduces students who are proficient in at least one programming language, such as C, R, Java or JavaScript, to the core elements of Python programming. Students learn to write clean code with Python's built-in data types and control structures, while reinforcing best-practices, like unit testing, and fundamental principles of program design, including decomposition and abstraction. Practical, hands-on projects allow students to develop capacity for problem solving and sharpen their programming and object-oriented programming skills.	1.81
comp-165	An introduction to web technologies and client-side web-application development, for students with prior coding experience. Students learn to apply a suite of fundamental technologies and techniques to build user interfaces and small web applications for the browser. Students develop a core understanding of how the Internet and World Wide Web work; how to design and develop HTML web pages styled with CSS; how to incorporate multimedia in their designs; how to add interactive functionality with JavaScript; and how to store application state in a server-side DB and/or in browser storage. Each student designs and builds a complete stand-alone project, published on the WWW.	2.08
comp-202	This course provides an overview of the discipline of Computer Science and its fundamental building blocks that unify hardware, software, algorithms and computational theory. It provides the foundation for further studies in computer architecture, operating systems, Net-centric computing, programming languages, compiler design, databases, theory of computation and artificial intelligence.	2.15
comp-210	A study of frequently used data structures and algorithms for manipulating them. This course emphasizes abstract data types and generic abstraction in object-oriented programming. Topics include lists, stacks, queues, sets, tables, trees and graphs, recursion, searching, sorting and analysis of algorithms.	2.24
comp-211	An introduction to some fundamental concepts of computer design and architecture: data representation and coding, combinational and sequential digital logic, microprocessor operation, memory organizations and addressing schemes, instruction sets, assembly language, and operating system interfaces.	2.02
comp-212	A study of the architecture and organization of current microprocessor-based computers, relating the instruction set architecture at the programmer's level of abstraction to the digital logic implementation at the hardware designer's level of abstraction.	2.17
comp-213	An introduction to the concepts and practice of software engineering: systems analysis, user interface design, debugging, profiling, and testing methods, operating system interface, support tools and scripting languages, project management, user and system documentation.	2.06
comp-215	Computational Science is considered the third pillar of scientific inquiry, alongside theory and physical experimentation. It combines modelling, simulation, scientific visualization, computer programming, data structures and algorithms to offer insights into a wide range of problems. Students are introduced to the concepts, principles, approaches, technologies, and practices of computational science. Students learn to construct computational models in a high-level programming language, like Python, and develop practical simulation and computational experimentation skills. The course focuses on the application of these techniques in a wide range of domains across the physical and social sciences; and includes an introduction to complexity science, systems thinking, and dynamic systems.	2.29
comp-220	This course continues the development of methods for general modular program design from COMP 120. An emphasis is placed on specific algorithms and data structures which are applicable to a range of problems and techniques for analyzing algorithms and data structures in relation to program design.	2.09
comp-301	This course provides an expos of current and emerging digital technologies and their impacts on individuals and society. Students learn some of the underlying principles and inner workings of digital technology. They link this understanding to the ramifications of digital technology on a range of economic, legal, environmental, and ethical issues, such as privacy and freedom of expression, security and crime, the nature of work and money, pollution and resource use, and intellectual property rights. Students learn to think critically about technologies, and to argue effectively about their potential impacts.	2.68
comp-320	Students are introduced to the principles, concepts, approaches, technologies, and practices of data modelling and database design using relational, non-relational, and filesystem-based data management systems. Students learn practical query languages and to develop programs that interact with various data management systems. The course focusses on the practical application of these technologies and techniques in a range of domains, including science, business, and computing; and includes an introduction to big data, data governance, and data security.	2.44
comp-330	Students are introduced to the principles, concepts, approaches, technologies, and practices of automated data acquisition, cleaning, transformation, merging, matching, storage, and analysis. Students learn to apply scripting languages to pattern matching, data pipelines, and other data wrangling techniques. The course focusses on practical uses for these technologies and techniques in a range of domains, including science, business, and computing; and includes an introduction to operating systems, command line shells, filesystems, and file formats.	2.59
cond-300	This course is designed to provide the student with the understanding of the basic principles of conducting. The content is appropriate for all musicians planning on conducting choral and/or instrumental ensembles.	2.57
cond-301	This course is designed to provide the student with the understanding of more advanced principles of conducting. The content is appropriate for all musicians planning on conducting choral and/or instrumental ensembles.	2.63
cond-350	This course is designed to expose the student to various conducting styles and settings. The class will observe videos and live rehearsals and performances, wherever possible. Guest conductors will be invited to discuss work in their field of specialty.	2.67
cond-351	This course is designed to expose the student to various conducting styles and settings. The class will observe videos and live rehearsals and performances, wherever possible. Guest conductors will be invited to discuss work in their field of specialty.	2.53
cost-100	This course focuses on the functions of a production costume shop. The primary focus will be on standard techniques and procedures in costume cutting and construction techniques in both the theatre and industries.	1.97
cost-101	This course continues instruction in the techniques and procedures of a professional costume shop.	1.84
cost-102	This course teaches the evolution of costumes throughout the ages and  the groundwork of understanding the historical and social relevance of costumes. History of Western Costume I will concentrate on the two main elements of form and line of historical costumes highlighted by information on the materials and methods used in costume making.	1.88
cost-103	This course focuses on the evolution of costumes from 1850 to the present. It concentrates on the two main elements of form and line of historical costumes highlighted by information on the materials and methods used in costume construction.	1.9
cost-104	This course explores the ways in which efficient theatre and film costume departments are organized and operated.	1.87
cost-105	This course focuses on hands-on production skills learned during practical work on a film project. Students engage in project work in the planning, preparation, and execution of the on-set duties of a film costumer.	1.85
cost-200	In a professional studio setting, students learn hands-on the techniques and procedures utilized in an industry costume department. The course is focusing on taking measurements, interpreting measurements to draft a pattern, and analyzing the correlation between standard body measurements and individual body measurements to draw conclusions that enable the students to draft and alter a pattern to fit an individual.	2.3
cost-202	This course introduces the student to both the creative and administrative aspects of the field of costume design for stage and screen with the emphasis on the creative presentation of costume ideas and concepts.	2.12
cost-203	In the final term of the program, students participate in a series of tutorials with outside professionals to gain experience in a range of specialty skills such as millinery, tailoring, special effects costuming, garment draping, corsetry, surface design, garment illustration	2.23
cost-205	This course will broaden the areas of expertise with hands-on production skills learned during practical work on a film project. Building on the skills and techniques practiced in COST 105 and COST 202, students will be evaluated for successful project work in the planning, preparation, and execution of duties in both the preparation process and the on-set supervision of a student film. In addition, students are introduced to the safety protocols of stunts and special effects used in the industry and how they relate to modification or preparation of costumes to be used by the performers. Hands on professional development techniques and systems are introduced.	2.14
cost-275	This course is intended for students possessing some knowledge of costuming skills.  The subject is taught in industry standard costuming workshops where students are mentored by professionals experienced in each area.  Specialty skills studied may include, but are not limited to, any of:  millinery, mask making,  armour  fabrication,  shoe making , accessories building.  Upon completion the successful student will be able to demonstrate proficiency in the specific area of costume specialty studied.   This course is only offered in the spring term.	2.19
cost-276	This course is intended for students possessing some knowledge of costuming skills.  The subject is taught in industry standard costuming workshops where students are mentored by professionals experienced in each area.  Advanced construction skills studied in this course will be selected from, but not limited to, the following: advanced flat patterning, garment fitting and alterations, period tailoring, advanced construction techniques, and garment draping.  Upon completion the successful student will be able to demonstrate proficiency in the specific area of advanced costume construction skills studied.  This course is only offered in the spring term.	2.05
cost-277	This course is intended for students possessing some knowledge of costuming skills.  The subject is taught in industry standard costuming workshops where students are mentored by professionals experienced in each area.  Special effects skills studied will be selected from, but not limited to the following:  special effects costuming, costumes for animation, surface design, advanced garment and fabric dying, advanced aging and distressing, and machine embroidery.   Upon completion the successful student will be able to demonstrate proficiency in the specific area of costume special effects skills studied.  This course is only offered in the spring term.	2.1
cost-278	This course is intended for students possessing some knowledge of costuming skills.  The subject is taught in industry standard costuming workshops where students are by professionals experienced in each area.  Upon completion the successful student will be able to demonstrate proficiency in corsetry construction skills.  This course is only offered in the spring term.	2.25
crim-101	This course is intended to introduce students to the analysis of the relationship between crime and society. The core concept is that crime is embedded in social structure and process and therefore must be understood in relation to, rather than apart from, normal social activity. A variety of classical and contemporary perspectives on the definition, causes and consequences of crime will be explored and student analysis of contemporary issues involving crime in Canadian society will be encouraged.	1.96
crim-202	This course examines the impact of contemporary crime prevention, surveillance and security practices. Students will learn how social control is achieved through a widening network of public and private agencies, including social services, law enforcement and urban planners, who regulate and 'police' our everyday interactions at the local, national and global levels. The second part of the course will focus on the targeting of minority and protest groups who are constructed as 'risks' to society, and impacts on Indigenous sovereignty.	2.02
crim-210	This course explores the gendered experiences of women and LGBTQ2S+ people involved in all phases of the criminal justice system, such as victims/survivors, offenders, and professionals. We will critically engage with the intersections among gender, race, class, and sexuality, and analyze the ways in which these affect the treatment of women and LGBTQ2S+ people inside and outside the criminal justice system. Particular attention will be paid to the experiences of Indigenous women, girls, and two-spirited people, as well as the links between inequality and criminalization.	2.2
crim-220	This course provides an overview of youth justice in Canada. It examines how youth crime has been constructed throughout history and how young people experience the criminal legal system today. Different forms of trauma suffered by youth before they have come in conflict with the law (individual, historical, intergenerational), and during their time within the system, are examined, as well as alternatives for dealing effectively with the problem of criminalizing young people.	2.11
crim-240	This course examines the social world of drugs and drug users. It looks at how drug policy has developed over time, and the structural effects these policies have on shaping the culture of drug use in Canada today. It explores how changing social conditions shape how we understand addiction, what we know about the effect drugs have on our bodies, and how we think about prevention and harm reduction.	2.12
crim-304	This course examines the law in relation to social relationships, processes, and structures. It will consider the social function of law and how the practice of law impacts different communities and individuals. The course will include discussion of how legal theories relate to conceptions of society, critiques of law from a sociological and feminist perspective, and the relationship between law as form of social control and change.	2.51
crim-305	This course examines the relationship between minority groups and the criminal justice system. Students will analyze how unequal power relations are created and sustained through the operations of the police, courts, social services and correctional system both within Canada and internationally. Of particular concern is how crime and the justice system further marginalize minority groups, including those with statuses associated with gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, class, citizenship and religion.	2.48
crim-310	Green criminology moves beyond an anthropocentric view of crime to include how and why certain forms of environmental harm are criminalized while other harms are encouraged by the state. It examines the various factors that drive these harms, such as capitalism, consumerism, and productivity, and considers different ways we might address these problems, including Indigenous perspectives which posit non-speciesist understandings for ecological wellbeing.	2.65
crim-311	This course explores the theory and practice of restorative and transformative justice. In contrast to retributive models of criminal justice, restorative justice presents an alternative model based on the principle of restoring balance. Transformative justice goes beyond restoration by seeking to change the social conditions that generated the harmful behaviour. This course will compare these models with Indigenous Justice systems, while recognizing their distinctiveness.	2.69
crim-313	Street level crimes, such as robbery and assault, receive a great deal of media attention, and yet what is happening at the level of the boardroom, i.e. misconduct on the part of corporations and states, contributes more financial loss, injury, and death than all street level crimes combined. This course will focus on understanding the crimes of the powerful, including those conducted by states, corporations, and wealthy individuals.	2.56
crim-330	This course explores the operational realities of Canadian prisons and penitentiaries, focusing on the rules, regulations and legislation empowering federal, provincial, and territorial governments to create and maintain prisons systems. It explores the rights that apply to prisoners and the specific remedial mechanisms instituted to protect prisoners within a carceral setting in Canada and examines the problems which may arise in these environments, such as power and legitimacy, the complex needs of prisoners with mental health issues, and the use of prolonged isolation. Jurisprudence on these and other issues relating to the care and custody of prisoners is examined.	2.46
crim-430	In what has been described as the punitive era, attention will be given to the rise in punitive sanctions, including its causes, consequences, and alternatives. This course is concerned with the sentencing and punishment of offenders. It considers, in historical context, the philosophical underpinnings of punishment; sentencing policy and practice within Canada; and the myriad forms of punishments available to respond to criminality. This course will analyze and reflect on public attitudes towards punishment, the sources of public punitiveness, and the relationship between public opinion and punishment policy.	2.85
crim-490	Students will work with a Criminology faculty member to guide them in an independent study or research project. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members.	2.91
dsgn-121	This course introduces design as a practice that addresses cultural and social issues by informing, persuading, and enlightening. Students are introduced to the basic visual components that create form and meaning, a variety of methods of visual organization, and appropriate use of colour in communication design. The course also examines the roles of research and theory in design, and how design methodology is based in problem-solving and iteration.	1.87
dsgn-122	This course focuses on idea generation and big picture thinking, and the themes of design for good and sustainable design. Students work collaboratively with other areas of the University and/or the community to solve problems using creative thinking techniques. Ways in which audiences interact with information are identified and related to visual communication problem solving.	2.02
dsgn-320	Students work on developing personal branding and self-promotional materials, and will be paired with industry mentors to undertake comprehensive design, illustration, or interactive projects. The emphasis will be on creating exceptional work with distinctive concepts.	2.64
dsgn-325	This course examines how design thinking is used to identify new solutions to diverse problems. Using a case study approach, students explore ways that design thinking has been successfully used around the world, and how cultural differences can influence design. The emerging field of design research is explored, including the value of evidence-based design; how ethnographic research can uncover audience values; and how these values can be integrated into the language of design.	2.53
dsgn-440	This course provides students with the opportunity to engage in professional development through the completion of a major self-directed capstone project. Students will demonstrate professional knowledge by using design thinking and research skills, advanced creative and conceptual abilities, and technical and traditional tools to an industry standard. Students are mentored by faculty and supported in a team-taught environment.	2.77
dsgn-441	This course provides students with the opportunity to engage in professional development through the completion of a major self-directed capstone project. Students will demonstrate professional knowledge by using design thinking and research skills, advanced creative and conceptual abilities, and technical and traditional tools to an industry standard. Students are mentored by faculty and supported in a team-taught environment.	2.73
dsgn-442	This course provides students with the opportunity to engage in professional development through the completion of a major self-directed capstone project. Students will demonstrate professional knowledge by using design thinking and research skills, advanced creative and conceptual abilities, and technical and traditional tools to an industry standard. Students are mentored by faculty and supported in a team-taught environment.	2.94
dsgn-443	This course provides students with the opportunity to engage in professional development through the completion of a major self-directed capstone project. Students will demonstrate professional knowledge by using design thinking and research skills, advanced creative and conceptual abilities, and technical and traditional tools to an industry standard. Students are mentored by faculty and supported in a team-taught environment.	2.71
dsgn-460	This course empowers students to launch their careers by showcasing their work in an exciting graduation exhibition. In this course students utilize studio photography, social media marketing, print and digital portfolio production techniques to support their exhibition. Through this one-night event, students will have the chance to display their projects to industry professionals, network with key contacts, and build valuable connections that will help propel their careers forward.	2.85
dsgn-473	This course introduces visual communicators to the freelance environment. It covers essential knowledge about professional practice in the visual communication field including ethics, studio management, billing, record keeping, business networking, client maintenance, and marketing for self-promotion. Students create necessary business documents and produce self-promotion collateral.	2.94
digi-130	In this course, students will be introduced to the fundamental principles of animation, and the laws of basic body mechanics. Through the study and application of classical animation techniques and timing, students will examine the importance of creating animated characters with weight, strong posing and believable performance.	1.85
digi-132	In this course students will compare and contrast industry approaches to designing and creating original 3D characters, props and environments for use in video games, television and film projects. Students will research, analyze and apply the fundamental techniques of modeling, sculpting, texturing, lighting and rendering in the creation of original 3D assets. Through reference and research, students will develop an appreciation for what makes an appealing 3D design suitable for use in a production pipeline.	2.08
digi-134	In this course students will be introduced to techniques for rigging 3D characters and objects for use in animated productions. Students will learn the production methodology used to create skeletons, expressions, controls and user interface systems that allow an animator to bring characters and objects to life. Students will learn troubleshooting techniques necessary to create assets ready for use in animated projects.	1.85
digi-136	The course concentrates on anatomical studies of the human form and extensive life drawing practice. Students will learn to reproduce complex anatomical form, poses, and gesture in realistic proportions. Through a variety of exercises students learn to capture the complexity of movement and gesture to create appealing drawings for animation. The study of life drawing and anatomy will impart a stronger appreciation of the human form and its use in the entertainment industry.	2.05
digi-140	In this course students will continue to develop their acting, timing and animation skills to create memorable 3D character performances.  This course will focus the students' efforts on dialogue, acting choices, character personality, body language, and pacing to create life-like characters. Further exploration and refinement of the principles of animation and how they are applied to create subtle acting nuances will help the students create a portfolio of professionally animated scenes.	2.0
digi-142	In this course students will continue to refine their 3D modeling, sculpting, texturing, shading and lighting skills introduced in 3D Design I to create production ready assets. Students will learn intermediate techniques in digital sculpture, shading, lighting and rendering to create professional looking 3D assets.	2.04
digi-144	In this course students will continue to investigate, research and create professional character rigs suitable for creating complex animated performances. Students will continue to explore and implement advanced rigging concepts using a variety of technologies designed to enable animators to achieve great animated performances. Students will use advanced simulation and procedural animation to speed up animation production.	1.84
digi-146	In this course students will continue to focus on life drawing of the human form with deeper investigation into gesture, form, structure and anatomy. Students will continue to study and draw from live models to solidify acquired knowledge and advance to intermediate studies in light, drapery and character design from life.	1.92
digi-148	In this course students will learn how to create appealing characters, props and environment designs for video game, television and film productions. Traditional and digital media techniques will be introduced in the creation of original concepts and artwork. Students will explore and utilize the visual language of design and story development to visually communicate ideas and themes effectively. A crucial element of the course is the ability to communicate and receive appropriate, respectful and constructive critique with regards to students' assignments.	1.87
digi-149	This course takes the student through numerous analytical studies of human and animal motion in order to build a fundamental understanding of movement. Animators and animation designers must understand how things move so that the laws of motion, timing and the principles of animation become inherent skills that allow the animator to focus on the performance of their actors.	1.86
digi-230	This course will refine a student's acting, posing and animation appeal to bring entertaining characters to life. Students will learn to define the subtle nuances of character animation while managing scenes with increased complexity and detail. Students will gain valuable experience animating physically realistic creatures in motion.	2.24
digi-232	In this course students will refine their technical and artistic process in the creation of advanced 3D characters, props or environments. Students will choose a career path and develop the specialized skills necessary to be a proficient production artist in the film or game industries. The course will focus on the creation of an online portfolio that showcases the students' creative talent.	2.01
digi-234	This course builds upon the students' knowledge of rigging technologies and facilitates the development of interactive animation rigs. Students will leverage animation class assignments adding technical elements including particles, rigid and soft body dynamics and cloth simulations. Students will plan and construct advanced rigging solutions based on a constructive needs analysis of relevant animation projects.	2.27
digi-237	In this course students will be introduced to the art of storyboarding and how it is used to visually communicate the emotional impact and pacing of a story.  Students will explore and apply storytelling and artistic techniques that are used by studios in the creation of storyboards and animatics. Students will plan and present their final term animation project through the creation of original story ideas and concepts.	2.08
digi-238	Concept artists provide engaging, inspirational and appealing designs that push the creative limits of 3D production artists. This course will continue to refine and improve the students' drawing, digital painting and design techniques established in Concept Art and Design I. Students will delve further into the art of visual communication for electronic game, television and film productions and concentrate on creating unique and appealing production ready designs.	2.04
digi-240	The animation industry demands specialists who produce exemplary work on tight timelines. This course enables students to attain outstanding skills in animation. Students will identify an animation career specialty and create an industry-focused, self-directed portfolio and animation demo reel that targets industry for employment. Regular peer reviews, group critiques and mentoring sessions will provide critical feedback while developing students' creative evaluation and analytical skills. Instructors will work with students to plan and develop unique, creative projects for their demo reels.	2.01
digi-242	The animation industry demands specialists who produce exemplary work on tight timelines. This course enables students to attain outstanding technical skills in 3D asset creation. Students will identify a 3D career specialty and create an industry-focused, self-directed portfolio and demo reel that targets industry for employment. Regular peer reviews, group critiques and mentoring sessions will provide critical feedback while developing students' creative evaluation and analytical skills. Instructors will work with students to plan and develop unique, creative projects for their portfolios. An emphasis will be placed on quality standards, professionalism, project management, and networking in the animation community.	2.19
digi-243	Creation of a specific visual style is an integral part and the basis of all art direction in any animation, game or film project. This course focuses on industry techniques and approaches for creating realistic visual looks through a variety of technologies.  Advanced shader creation, rendering and compositing techniques will aid students in the creation of a polished professional portfolio and demo reel.	2.02
digi-245	The animation industry demands specialists who are capable of producing exemplary work on tight timelines. This course enables students to attain outstanding skills in their chosen area of expertise. Students will identify a career specialty and create an industry-focused, self-directed portfolio and demo reel that targets the industry sector they wish to be employed in. Regular peer reviews, group critiques and mentoring sessions will provide critical portfolio feedback while developing students' creative evaluation and analytical skills.  Instructors will work with students to plan and develop unique, creative projects and original content for their portfolios and/or demo reels.  An emphasis will be placed on quality standards, professionalism, project management, and networking in the animation community.	2.06
dep-001	    The focus of this course is to encourage students' needs to develop and use job search techniques and appropriate employment behaviours. Students will also be encouraged to practice self-advocacy in terms of their employment needs. An emphasis will be placed on developing interview skills with confidence.	3.35
dep-002	    The focus of this course is to provide students with practical experience in a work situation including preparation prior to placement and follow-up concluding the practicum. Emphasis will be placed on making students aware of and knowledgeable about WHMIS, WCB rules, and occupational health and safety.	3.28
dep-005	    The focus of this course is to extend students' awareness, knowledge and understanding of communication skills required for obtaining employment and to improve their ability to communicate effectively using a variety of media (e.g. computer, printed words, signs). Class time is comprised of discussions, talks, worksheets, field trips, role-plays, and hands-on experience. Students will be given instruction in computer skills. Students will be given opportunities to prepare resumes, cover letters, and thank-you letters using the Microsoft Word software program.	3.0
dep-006	    To assist students in their transition from high school to employment and community involvement.  The workplace is demanding and requires a student to be self-motivated and take personal responsibility.  Building on the student's previous experiences, they will develop a greater understanding of workplace requirements, and an awareness of the tools they will need to be able to more actively participate in the workplace and the community.	3.34
dep-007	    This course provides students with strategies and opportunities to practice and improve a range of consumer related skills.  Field trips are incorporated in the program.	3.01
dep-008	    This course provides students with an opportunity to discuss and develop the skills involved with effectively communicating in a diverse range of interpersonal roles and relationships (friend, neighbour, consumer, citizen).	2.82
dep-009	    To give the student practical work experiences in a range of working environments, including preparation prior to placement and follow-up concluding the practicum.	3.03
docs-101	This course is designed to provide an operational understanding of professional video and audio production equipment including various cameras, lighting, sound and other essential production equipment used in field operations. The course offers instruction in both basic production skills and the skills required to make the equipment work on locations far from technical support. Despite being mostly technical in nature, the course will touch upon visual aesthetics and the importance of visual story telling.	2.05
docs-102	This course acknowledges the invaluable hands-on production skills learned during practical work on a video project.  Students work on project planning, preparation, and execution.  Working in a mentored environment, students plan, produce and edit individual and group student projects.  Instruction is in the form of practical demonstrations, individual assistance, and supervised work on specific projects.	1.82
docs-103	This course is an intensive grounding in the art and science of recording sound for documentary filmmaking. The course features a foundational analysis of psychoacoustic principles, the use of professional sound recording equipment, techniques for recording sound on location, and introduction to the process of postproduction sound.	1.98
docs-106	Students explore the fundamentals of storytelling as they relate to film, from the basic three-act structure to developing theme, visual style and point-of-view. Focusing on the creative process of idea generation through story development to final treatment for a one-off/stand alone documentary or small unit production, the course will include the writing of material for the term projects and weekly in-class review of students' work.	1.9
docs-107	This course is an intensive grounding in the art and science of storytelling through film editing. The course features a foundational analysis of editing principles, history and phases of postproduction, which include offline and online editing, sound editing, effects, graphics and format distribution.	1.82
docs-108	Learning how the masters did it, students explore how different aesthetic approaches to documentary film and video were informed by historical events, creative movements, technological and industrial developments, as well as the personal, artistic and political vision that shaped documentary versions of reality. Through immersion in the diverse language of the documentary form and aesthetics, students examine how their own philosophies and vision influence the creative choices they make to tell their own stories.	2.1
docs-109	This course introduces the elementary skills needed to direct a documentary film. From ideation to pre-production, students will learn basic story development strategies and professional skills to turn their ideas into short non-fiction films. As they embark on the director's journey, students will learn how to develop their artistic voice as they apply the creative and professional processes to making a film, from research and writing to funding and networking opportunities and how to exploit them. During the course students will have the opportunity to develop their documentary ideas for Production I projects.	1.95
docs-122	Students continue to develop and master the hands-on production skills learned during the practical and theoretical courses of the first semester by preparing Project II, the final project of the program. Students work in a mentored environment on project planning, preparation, and execution on one or more student projects.	2.0
docs-124	This course is an intensive grounding in the art and science of lighting and camera skills for documentary film. Students begin the visual development and preparation of Project II.	1.82
docs-126	In this course, students learn about different aesthetic approaches to story in the technical and theoretical courses of the program, and apply these documentary styles to their own work through a series of practical exercises to help develop their own perspectives and styles. Non-fiction genres to be explored include cinema verit, compilation, personal essay, hybrid and experimental. The course will include the writing of material for preparing Project II.	2.0
docs-129	This course explores the role of the director in the art of visual storytelling. Through the study of aesthetic and stylistic techniques in documentary non-fiction production, students will learn how to develop a storytelling voice and creative vision for a film, such as developing a point-of-view and coherent visual style. Carrying this artistic vision into the field of production and post production, students will learn how to lead a creative team, how to plan and organize the direction of a scene, and how to direct for different genres, locations and situations. Students will also hone their interviewing skills and learn about the roles and responsibilities of becoming a documentary filmmaker.	1.95
docs-131	This course focuses on the materials needed and the methods used to secure financing for a documentary production. Students will identify appropriate sources of financing for their non-fiction projects and develop a basic understanding of project management and business affairs in the context of documentary production.	2.03
docs-133	This course is an intensive grounding in the art and science of designing sound for documentary filmmaking. The course features a foundational analysis of sound editing principles, the use of professional post-production sound equipment, techniques for preparing sound for final mix, and mixing.	2.09
docs-147	This course builds on the students' knowledge of post-production software while developing their story-telling skills through the articulation and manipulation of visual components related to colour, movement, and rhythm.	1.87
docs-315	This course explores documentary cinema as it applies to the field of environmental studies. Students will learn the historical and theoretical background to documentary film, and how to utilize documentary principles and techniques for the creation and distribution of academically-informed non-fiction materials. Students will develop their own project ideas and materials to create a live-action short documentary as they establish a foundation in documentary cinema arts and sciences.	2.6
educ-111	Students will gain valuable insight into American Sign Language, one of several sign languages used in North America as a complex visual language that is significantly distinct from spoken languages. Students will be introduced to American Sign Language and Deaf Culture through lectures, guest speakers, stories, movement, rhythm, and other immersive experiences. This course is for students with no prior knowledge of ASL and is suitable for all Capilano University students and faculty. A team of two faculty teaches the course, at least one of whom is Deaf.	1.98
educ-121	This course provides students with an overview of the British Columbia legislation, the administration of child care programs and the role and responsibility of staff in child care administration to ensure the health and safety of children in care.	1.85
educ-159	Students will discuss systemic inequities across issues such as gender, sexuality, race, class and disability, dialoguing about transformative change within the context of early years settings.	1.82
educ-166	This course is the first of a two part series of courses providing students with an overview of developmental research and theory for children from conception till 8 years of age. In this course students will be introduced to the history of child developmental theory and research. Students will also examine early learning, motor development, physical growth and development (including brain development) and emotional development.	2.09
educ-168	This course is the second of a two part series of courses providing students with an overview of developmental research and theory for children from conception through to eight years of age. In this course students will continue looking at the history of child developmental theory and research. Students will also examine early learning, speech and language development, social development, literacy development, play, and the outdoors as a context for development.	1.96
educ-173	This experiential course introduces the foundations of the BC Early Learning Framework as it relates to the pedagogical orientations and the processes and practices of curriculum formation.	1.86
educ-178	This course has two modules that provide students with the knowledge and abilities to create caring and learning environments for young children. In the first module emphasis is placed on practising and applying skills developed from understanding basic communication principles and techniques. The second module emphasizes the importance of planning environments to support the learning of all young children in early childhood settings.	1.99
educ-179	In this course, students will become familiar with a variety of guidance/ teaching strategies focused on responding to the needs of the individual child. The focus of this course is to support students in their ability to promote each child's self-esteem, sense of belonging, and participation with others.  The role of the adult and the arrangement of the environment will be examined. Students will develop a personal philosophy of guidance.	1.8
educ-183	The student will acquire further knowledge, experience and skill in planning, implementing, and evaluating learning environments for groups of children.	1.97
educ-190	In the first part of the course, students will have opportunities to develop skills in order to observe, record and document the behaviour of young children. Students will begin to support and extend children's interests and play through spontaneous and planned inclusive activities. Interpersonal skills with adults and children will also be developed. During the practicum, students will use their daily Teacher Journal and sponsor teacher suggestions to reflect on their own significant learning. Based on observations, students will be able to begin to interpret children's engagements and develop responsive programming strategies.	1.87
educ-240	This course engages in a critical analysis of current development research and theory focusing on children aged birth to eight. Critically examining the concepts such as readiness, inclusion, gender, diversity in order to understand how developmental theory can construct barriers to quality early childhood education.	2.1
educ-244	To provide an introduction to the history of and philosophies that guides the practice of Early Childhood Care and Education. To critically reflect upon the roles and responsibilities of the Early Childhood Educator in the reconceptualized framework.	2.0
educ-251	The student will gain knowledge of the broad concepts and principles involved in the effective administration and management of a child care centre and the skills required to fulfil the role of a manager/director/administrator.	2.1
educ-276	The ECCE program includes three applied theory practicum courses. In each successive course, students extend their knowledge and skills developed in the previous practicum.  This course is the second course in the sequence. Students will continue to develop skills in observing, documenting and understanding children and their play and develop programming that honours individual differences, family and cultural practices. Students will be expected to participate as a member of the teaching team.	2.09
educ-277	The ECCE program includes three applied theory practicum courses.  In each successive course, students extend their knowledge and skills developed in the previous practicum.  This course is the third course in the sequence. Students will continue to develop skills in observing, documenting and understanding children and their play and develop programming that honours individual differences, family and cultural practices.  During this practicum, the student will be expected to participate as a member of the teaching team.	2.02
educ-281	This course explores the relationship between families, children's programs and communities. Students will consider the role of Early Childhood Education in Society and our professional responsibilities to young children and families. The study of program qualities, policies and teacher/family communication will be examined with respect to family diversity, supportive relationships and with sensitivity to the issues currently affecting children, families and programs.	2.16
educ-282	The student will develop an awareness of the early childhood educator's role and responsibility in preparing a safe, healthy environment and in planning routine procedures for infants and toddlers. The focus will be on planning schedules, routines, space and program activities for infants and toddlers.  Individual and small group activities which promote self esteem, language, social behaviours and self-help skills will be planned. Goal setting and effective guidance will be discussed.	2.06
educ-284	This course will examine strategies for collaborating with parents, adapting programs, implementing individual intervention goals and helping children to communicate with one another.	2.1
educ-349	This practicum course requires a 25-day practicum in an inclusive centre for children birth-to-three years. Throughout the course students will reflect in depth upon their previous teaching experiences in relation to the current practicum placement. The intent of the practicum is to implement opportunities for planned and spontaneous programming and consider respectful interactions with young children. Furthermore, throughout the practicum a student will demonstrate advanced professional competencies, knowledge and reflective skills.	2.59
educ-372	This course is designed to introduce contemporary issues in the broader field of childhood studies in order to expose students to current developments in the field. International, national and local aspects of childhood policy, practice, professionalism, and government initiatives will be considered. There will be an in-depth examination of a range of current political, social, professional and community issues relevant to the topic selected for this 300-level course.	2.59
educ-373	This course provides students with the opportunity to examine all aspects of negotiated curriculum. Topics will include the image of the child, the investigative environment, learning materials and the basic principles of documentation.	2.41
educ-375	The course aims to give students the ability to interpret a broad and historical review of the development of the different concepts of globalization. A critical and questioning approach to the influences of global trends on child-rearing processes and development will be encouraged. The course will critically examine the concepts, terms, definitions and debates of globalization as influences for early childhood practitioners.	2.48
educ-376	This course will give the student an understanding of the concept of early literacy and its significance in early childhood care and education.	2.59
educ-379	This course will give students the development tools and strategies for organizing the work of the pedagogista in ECCE organizations.  On completion of the course, student will have the ability to define the role of pedagogista in our communities and be able to critically examine the ethics and politics in ECCE organizations.  Students will also learn how to investigate the role of progettazione: concept and practice, and how to build listening and dialogue in communities of learning.	2.56
educ-381	The Advanced Practice stream has two applied theory practicum  courses. This course is the first course in the sequence. Please note this stream cannot be used to obtain a  post basic license  to practice from the BC Early Childhood Registry.  The practicum placement will be in an approved setting which has an early years mandate.  Students will gain advanced practice skills in programs supporting young children and their families. Students will conduct in-depth examination of the program delivery, mandate and legislation associated with the program. Student will incrementally demonstrate advanced practice, knowledge and reflective skills.	2.43
educ-382	The Advanced Practice stream has two applied theory practicum courses.  This course is the second course in the sequence.  Please note this stream cannot be used to obtain a post basic license to practice from the BC Early Childhood Registry.  The practicum placement will be in an approved setting which has an early years mandate.  Students willgain advanced practice skills in programs supporting young children and their families.  Students will conduct in-depth examination of the program delivery, mandate and legislation associated with the program.  Student will incrementally demonstrate advanced practice, knowledge and reflective skills.	2.66
educ-383	This course explores the notion of outdoor education and nature-based education in an early childhood context. The major emphasis will be on how children and educators can develop an ecological identity by engaging in outdoor spaces/curriculum.	2.57
educ-384	Based on the philosophy that play provides the foundation for children's growth and development, this experiential workshop course focuses on learning environments, curriculum planning, and teaching strategies that support children's engagement with concepts of numeracy. The course will focus on how young children use and understand mathematics in everyday life, in their play and in their daily living.	2.48
educ-385	In this advanced curriculum course, students will engage with pedagogical practices related to curriculum that reflects the BC Early Learning Framework (BC ELF) and current directions and practices in the reconceptualizing early childhood movement. The emphasis will be on putting theory to work in curriculum while thinking with social constructionism, new materialism and post humanism as these are the theories that ground the BC ELF.	2.65
educ-386	This course will introduce students to current early childhood theories and approaches that understand pedagogy as situated and relational. This course examines the role of the pedagogista in the ongoing development of West Coast Pedagogies in early years classrooms. Throughout the course students will learn within an interdisciplinary approach to pedagogy and place so as to generate contextual pedagogical dispositions and sensitivities.	2.52
educ-388	This course will explore the philosophical and pedagogical aspects of narrations that promote practices and inquiries that support pedagogical work that listens to children's interests, desires, experimentations and movements. In order to understand the purposes and processes of pedagogical narrations, students will critically contextualize documentation in early childhood education.	2.62
educ-390	This practicum course requires a 25-day practicum in an inclusive centre for children birth-to-five years. In this course, the student will develop programming that honours individual differences, family and cultural practices. An in-depth examination of inclusive practice will be a guiding factor throughout the practicum. These skills will incrementally demonstrate the student's advanced professional, practice, knowledge and reflective skills.	2.63
educ-470	This course examines the social, political, and economic factors and the relationships between these factors and families in a variety of cultural contexts.  A study of socio-cultural theories will build a more complex picture of the relations between individual and cultural processes.  Students will be able to formulate a professional response that includes families as active participants in the care and education of their children.	2.71
educ-471	This course explores leadership, advocacy and policy within the context of current political and philosophical dialogues in ECCE.  Key topics will include an examination of relevant legislation, government policies and regulations; roles of advocacy groups; policy development; relationships with governmental and non-governmental organizations and the role that Early Childhood educators play as advocates in a global context.	2.54
educ-472	This course is designed to examine contemporary issues in early childhood care and education in order to expose students to current developments in the field.  International, national and local aspects of early childhood policy, practice, professionalism, curriculum and learning environments will be considered. There will be an in-depth examination of a range of current political, social, professional and community issues relevant to early childhood practices.	2.51
educ-473	This course is an introduction to the tradition of practitioner research in Early Childhood Care and Education.  Students will learn the rudiments of critical teacher inquiry and explore research as an ongoing aspect of one's teaching practice. The course focuses on the dispositions, concepts and skills involved in designing and conducting educational research projects.  It introduces a range of qualitative research methodologies.  Students will begin framing a research question and designing an independent research project.	2.95
educ-474	This course will provide students with an understanding of various social justice frameworks and the complexities of translating them into early childhood care and educational practices.  Topics include an examination of social justice issues from an ethical perspective; an assessment of power dynamics and privilege in contemporary and historical societies; and a focus on the relationships between ethics, early childhood care and education and human rights at both theoretical and practical levels.	2.86
educ-475	In this course students carry out an extended, in-depth curriculum project investigating an idea, material, process, story, or topic with children, document the project using the processes and practices of pedagogical narration, and present the project in a public presentation. Students will be assisted in finding appropriate placements to engage in an in-depth curriculum project with children 0 to 5 years of age that reflects the pedagogical intentions in the BC Early Learning Framework.	2.86
educ-476	This course explores artistic ways of knowing and researching in early childhood contexts. The major emphasis will be on the characteristics of artistic processes; how these processes compose a critical and relational inquiry; and how artistic processes are connected to daily life. Students will be encouraged to explore art forms; consider exemplars of artistic, visual, image-based and studio-based educational research; generate and investigate images; and consider what it means to engage in artful thinking and aesthetic approaches. The course offers the opportunity to consider alternative forms of educational research, understand the arts as a mode of inquiry, and to conceptualize the early childhood art studio as a space of research.	2.53
educ-477	The course develops an understanding of current theories, approaches, and innovations as it relates to young children's art. It considers different approaches to children's processes such as developmental, semiotic, relational-materialist, Deluezian approaches, how each might work with children's own concerns and the educational implications of each perspective. This course explores ways that educators can facilitate children's artistic engagements and productions and support their fluency with/in different artistic media and processes. It aims to help educators develop sensitivities towards working with young children in their creations, experimentations and fabrications. The course is designed with either on-line and face-to-face  portions or face to face delivery and involves readings, discussions, group work, and personal experimentation with various artistic processes.	2.66
educ-479	This course examines the philosophy and pedagogy of education for organizing the work of the pedagogista in early childhood contexts. Drawing on the thoughts of curriculum theorists, educational philosophers, and Indigenous scholars, students will critically examine a variety of pedagogies within diverse disciplines. The key topics of this course include the ethics and politics in early childhood organizations, teachers' pedagogical dispositions, and reconceptualizing early childhood curriculum and pedagogy. This course suggests that pedagogy is inevitably situated, responsive, interdisciplinary and compositional.	2.97
educ-483	This course explores the notion of outdoor education and nature-based education in an early childhood context. The course includes an intensive field study component that involves students participating in outdoor activities. Picking up the threads that wove through EDUC 383, the major emphasis of this course will be gaining knowledge regarding how to ethically engage in outdoor spaces/curriculum with young children.	2.57
educ-485	This course introduces students to postqualitative research methodologies engaging with a range of poststructural and posthumanist theories to unsettle Eurocentric and anthropocentric frameworks. Students examine positivist research terms such as reliability, validity, representation, and objectivity from a postqualitative lens. Postqualitative methods such as decolonizing methods, multispecies ethnography, a/r/tography, queer/queering methods and narratives/writing are explored to consider new ways of engaging in research that acknowledges the complexity and contradiction of lived experiences. Moving beyond data analysis as a process of coding and accessing, themes, students engage in data analysis methods that make possible new understandings of data. The goal of this course is to invite students to disrupt research as a quest for certainty and universality in order to make space for provisional and diverse ways of being in the world.	2.95
educ-505	This course uses poststructural including posthumanist theories and a reconceptualist perspective to reimagine alternative ways of understanding childhoods in the 21st century. Students explore the concept of subjectivity to make visible how subjects are produced and maintained in educational practices. Woven throughout this course is an analysis of how particular neoliberal subjectivities within education routinely marginalize specific groups of children and families. Students consider alternative educational practices that emerge from a perspective that all children are strong, resilient and resourceful.  Attention is given to the messy, complex and often contradictory lives of that contain entangled multiple relationships with humans and more than human beings.	3.42
econ-100	This course traces the development of, and conflicting views on, the nature of economic systems throughout history. It focuses on the historical development of economic society and the divergent interpretations of the operation of capitalism as found in the writings of such economists as Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Karl Marx, J.M. Keynes and Milton Friedman. It also deals with contemporary issues and such basic concepts as supply and demand.	1.89
econ-110	This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of economics and their application in various fields. Through lectures, discussions, and problem-solving exercises, students will learn to analyze economics problems and to understand the economic environment in which decisions are made. This course covers both microeconomics and macroeconomics. Microeconomics introduces the market system of demand and supply, the effects of government interventions such as taxes, subsidies and price controls, and market failures. Macroeconomics covers the measurement of economy, economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies	1.97
econ-111	This course presents a study of the theoretical constructs of consumer behaviour and the operation of business firms in the market economy under conditions of perfect competition, oligopoly, monopoly and monopolistic competition. Included is an evaluation of these different markets.	1.89
econ-112	This course presents a model of income determination and explains how the various parts of the macro-economy are interrelated. Included is the study of the possible causes and solutions to unemployment and inflation and the importance of the international economy. Government fiscal and monetary policies are examined in detail.	1.83
econ-207	This course is the application of microeconomic theory to a variety of management and planning decisions such as output maximization and cost minimization given the constraints faced by firms.	2.0
econ-210	This course is an introduction to the role of money and banks within the general functioning of the financial markets and is designed to facilitate an understanding of financial markets both in Canada and in other major industrial countries. Topics include, the theory of bank behaviour, the tools, the conduct and the evolution of monetary policy, present value analysis, interest rate determination, and exchange rates.	2.14
econ-211	This course presents an in-depth look at such topics as consumer behaviour, production, exchange, equilibrium of the firm under different market structures, factor markets, and economic welfare.	2.16
econ-212	The course presents an in-depth look at such topics as income and employment theory, monetary theory, the open economy, economic fluctuations and growth.	2.16
econ-230	This course examines the interconnection between the economy and the natural environment and introduces students to the different approaches used to integrate the two, and to design policies to meet the challenge of sustainability. The course also examines the historical evolution of economic thought and economic policies with respect to ecological and environmental issues.	2.27
econ-250	This course provides a broad sweep of economic history from the Old Stone Age to the Industrial Revolution. The economies of the prehistoric era, the river civilizations, classical antiquity and Europe in the middle ages are studied, while emphasis is placed on the transition from feudalism to early forms of capitalism in Europe.	2.01
econ-252	This course provides a study of the Industrial Revolution and subsequent economic growth in the context of several countries, including Canada.  Contrast is made between the paths of development of today's industrial economies and those nations now attempting to industrialize.	2.23
econ-255	Examine the effects of globalization on the world's economic, political and social landscape. The course will focus on international trade, capital movement, division of production and migration.	2.17
econ-290	The course involves an examination of the current government microeconomic policies which are important to Canada, including resource management, utility regulation and pricing, international trade, income distribution, taxation, education, health care and environmental protection.	2.15
econ-291	The course involves an examination of current government macroeconomic policies, including fiscal and monetary policies, debt management policies, international finance and exchange rate management, federal provincial relations, etc.	2.21
econ-342	This course will examine the causes and implications of differences in economic growth around the world. Economic theory is used to analyze issues of traditional fertility and mortality patterns, demographic transition, well-being and nutrition, international and internal migration, epidemics and growth spurts.	2.67
econ-350	This course, which requires no prior knowledge of Economics, will examine both the major changes in the way humans have organized their economic systems and in the ways in which these economic systems has been understood and explained.  Among the major themes will be the decline in self-sufficiency, the rise of regional and national markets and the transition to a global economy.	2.66
econ-378	This course will examine the rise and fall of economic systems of the Four Cs - Co-operation, Command, Custom and Competition - over the ages. It will look at the features of each system, examining the strengths and weaknesses of each, and will explain why eventually most of them fail. This course will also explain where each of the isms - capitalism, socialism, feudalism, imperialism and market socialism - fits into this schema.	2.48
econ-390	This course provides qualitative and quantitative methods, including benefit/cost analysis, to quantify the effects of public policies on the economy, business and consumers.  It analyzes international trade and investment, resource management, environmental protection, competition, industry entry and pricing regulation and tax policies with a combination of lectures, case studies and class debates.	2.46
econ-430	This course covers the emerging field of Circular Economies, which can be characterized as economic systems that aim for minimal waste and pollution. These economies involve models of production and consumption that include sharing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing, and recycling existing materials and products with the goal of maximizing their value and life cycle. The course will study the history of the theory of circular economies; it will discuss specific examples of transitions from linear to circular economies in various industries, communities, countries, and regions. It will also explore the theoretical and empirical frameworks used to plan, assess, and evaluate policies that pursue the implementation of circular economies.	2.51
econ-490	Students will work with an Economics faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of Economics website for complete details on the application process.	2.55
edcp-020	This course prepares adults with basic and fundamental skills to successfully enter and sustain work or progress into other career-related education.	3.49
edcp-040	This course seeks to develop a foundation of skills, attitude, strategies and plans to enhance long term academic, career and life success through career exploration, educational planning, study skills and time management.	3.44
ea-100	    In this course, the students will gain an understanding of the historical and philosophical issues in the field of inclusive education.	1.95
ea-101	    In this course, the students will gain an understanding of the school system and the EA role within the kindergarten to grade 12	1.95
ea-102	    In this course, the students will practise the application of basic communication principles, interpersonal and problem-solving skills, as it relates to the role of the education assistant in an educational setting.	1.91
ea-103	    In this course, students will gain knowledge of various behaviour profiles. From a trauma- informed, social-emotional learning lens and through integration of the First Peoples principles of learning, students will develop an understanding of how to support children and youth with behavioural difficulties in school environments. Mental health challenges will be explored.	1.94
ea-104	    In this course, students will become familiar with a wide range of low- and high-tech adaptations for students with diverse learning needs. The course will teach the Boardmaker program and facilitate the creation of visual supports to support learning, and for use in subsequent classes. E-portfolios will be created and their purpose in the global summation of learning will be extensively discussed and evaluated.	2.02
ea-105	    In this course, students will explore current issues emphasized in inclusive education through definition, etiology, prevalence and implications for learning in the various areas of exceptionality. This exploration will be guided by the First Peoples principles of learning and Equity, Diversity and Inclusion values and principles. A practical skills introduction is included; taught by an Occupational Therapist, Physical Therapist, or Registered Nurse.	1.84
ea-106	    In this course, students will become familiar with a wide range of low- and high-tech adaptations for students with communication impairments. Common computer and tablet hardware and software that are used in schools will be explored. Students will learn how the school system and related agencies assess the needs of students who present with a wide range of abilities and provide appropriate differentiation. Relationships between teachers, related professionals, and the education assistants in terms of educational planning and implementations of plans regarding technology will be discussed. Students will enhance their use and confidence with Boardmaker tools to support student needs.	1.92
ea-107	    In this course, the student will gain knowledge of and experience with a range of accommodation strategies suitable for inclusion of students K-grade 12.	1.82
ea-108	    In this course, the student will gain knowledge of and experience with a range of instructional strategies suitable for inclusion of students on individualized programs in K-grade 12.	1.87
ea-109	    In this course, the student will gain the practical experience necessary to work effectively as an EA in the classroom supporting students K-grade 12, who present with a wide range of abilities. For those students already employed in EA role, a Capstone project will be completed.	1.86
ea-001	    Participants will engage in assessment inventories leading to specific employment and/or education opportunities. Assessment results will be documented to support students' goals.	2.91
ea-002	    This course offers students the opportunity to create and develop both a print and e-portfolio. Students will reflect on what they have learned from the Assessment course and continue to build their portfolios with skills and certifications obtained throughout the program. Students will demonstrate using a portfolio for work search or in educational interviews.	3.5
ea-003	    This course is designed to raise students' awareness of the employability skills required to obtain successful employment. Students will identify and address personal and employment barriers.	3.04
ea-004	    Students will learn skills and techniques required for effective customer service delivery and industry specific materials.	2.92
ea-005	    This course is designed to provide students with practical skills training and work experience with ongoing evaluations.	3.04
ea-006	    This course is designed specifically for students who require more support in their transition from high school to either first year university, employment, further post-secondary courses and/or to more inclusive and active community involvement.	3.0
ea-007	    This course is designed for students currently enrolled the Education and Employment Access program at Capilano University and require support to succeed. The focus will be on developing the academic and personal skills necessary to become a successful student. Emphasis will be placed on taking personal responsibility for learning and how to effectively disclose learning disabilities in an educational and workplace environment. Students will have the opportunity to fully understand and utilize the university support services: writing centre, learning labs, advisors, counsellors, accessibility student services and learning specialist. The advantages of using technology will also be highlighted.	3.18
eea-001	    Participants will engage in assessment inventories leading to specific employment and/or education opportunities. Assessment results will be documented to support students' goals.	3.33
eea-002	    This course offers students the opportunity to create and develop both a print and e-portfolio. Students will reflect on what they have learned from the Assessment course and continue to build their portfolios with skills and certifications obtained throughout the program. Students will demonstrate using a portfolio for work search or in educational interviews.	3.22
eea-003	    This course is designed to raise students' awareness of the employability skills required to obtain successful employment. Students will identify and address personal and employment barriers.	2.94
eea-004	    Students will learn skills and techniques required for effective customer service delivery and industry specific materials.	3.08
eea-005	    This course is designed to provide students with practical skills training and work experience with ongoing evaluations.	3.38
eea-006	    This course is designed specifically for students who require more support in their transition from high school to either first year university, employment, further post-secondary courses and/or to more inclusive and active community involvement.	3.33
eea-007	    This course is designed for students currently enrolled the Education and Employment Access program at Capilano University and require support to succeed. The focus will be on developing the academic and personal skills necessary to become a successful student. Emphasis will be placed on taking personal responsibility for learning and how to effectively disclose learning disabilities in an educational and workplace environment. Students will have the opportunity to fully understand and utilize the university support services: writing centre, learning labs, advisors, counsellors, accessibility student services and learning specialist. The advantages of using technology will also be highlighted.	3.5
apsc-111	In this project-based course, leading to a micro-credential, students will be introduced to the principles of computer aided design. Case studies and sample problems will be used to elucidate these principles and conventions. The main software tool used in this course will be SOLIDWORKS, a common design tool used in Industrial design. Students will participate in the design of an original solution that will be fabricated using 3D printers.	1.88
apsc-112	In this exploratory course, leading to a micro-credential, students will be introduced to modern rapid prototyping technology used for engineering design and manufacturing. Students will learn about many new rapid prototyping technologies, such as 3D printers, casting techniques, laser cutters, computer controlled milling machines, and electronic circuit board technology. Case studies and sample problems will be used to elucidate these principles and conventions. Factors affecting the cost of using these technologies will be discussed.	2.09
apsc-113	In this project management course, leading to a micro-credential, students will be introduced to Engineering Project management with a focus on original product design utilizing rapid prototyping technology and modern planning tools. Topics such as management of intellectual property, risk, schedules, and program development costs will be discussed. Case studies and sample problems will be used to elucidate these principles and conventions. Students will participate in the discussion and comparison of the strengths and weaknesses of management approaches.	2.06
apsc-120	This course uses guest speakers, video-taped material and field trips to provide students with an orientation to a career as a professional engineer.  Attendance at scheduled activities is the only course requirement.  Final grades are reported as CR (Credit Granted) or NC (No Credit Granted).	1.94
apsc-130	In this hands-on lab-based course students will be introduced to hand drafting and computer-aided drafting techniques applied to engineering designs. Although it is intended for students in the Engineering programs, this course will be of interest to any discipline that involves the design of materials, structures, devices, systems, or processes according to specified criteria. Students will learn to communicate technical material in graphical form, and to read, understand, and produce basic engineering drawings. In addition, students will become familiar with some of the conventions and practices of graphical communication.	1.91
apsc-140	In this project-based course students will be introduced to the principles of engineering design and to the conventions of technical presentation. Case studies and sample problems will be used to elucidate these principles and conventions. Students will participate in the design of original solutions to new problems, and will communicate technical engineering material in graphical, written, and oral forms. Design problems will be chosen from a variety of engineering disciplines to give students some exposure to the different facets of engineering practise.	2.06
apsc-151	In this course, students will be introduced to modern drone technology and applications. The course will cover various topics including the history of drone development, and the current regulatory environment in Canada. The major elements of drone systems will be discussed, including all elements of the drone platform and sensors, and the associated ground station technology. Key payload technologies will be explored, including exposure to radio control link design. Mission planning activities as well as major applications will also be discussed. The course will also help prepare students for the Basic Transport Canada Drone Pilot exam.	1.84
apsc-278	This course is an introduction to the underlying structure of solids from the atomic to the macroscopic scale. Students will examine the nature of defects, microstructure and mechanical, electrical and optical properties of materials.	2.16
engl-010	This is an intensive course in fundamental writing and reading skills. It is not transferable to university, but successful completion guarantees admission to English 100.	3.44
engl-100	This university writing course introduces students to foundational strategies for critical reading, analytical thinking, and clear writing. Through the exploration of topical questions in local and global contemporary culture, the course teaches core skills for active reading and discussion, and provides students with opportunities to write in a range of forms and genres from blog posts to critical analysis to research projects. Revision and detailed individual feedback are fundamental components of the course. Modules on research literacy are taught in collaboration with the university library. Modules on editing, revision, and digital literacy are taught in collaboration with the Capilano Writing Centre.	2.04
engl-103	This course introduces students to a rich variety of literature in both traditional and new genres, including novels, plays, poems, screenplays, memoirs, and graphic novels. See the Department of English website for the focus of the course in a specific term.	1.8
engl-107	This course focuses on Indigenous poetry, plays, screenplays, films, novels, and memoirs across national boundaries. The course may also include work by some non-Indigenous writers on Indigenous subjects. See the Department of English website for the focus of the course in a specific term.	2.05
engl-109	This course explores contemporary issues as represented in literature, film and music. The specific issue investigated differs between sections, instructors and years. See the Department of English website for the focus of the course in a specific term.	1.92
engl-112	This course will support first-year students in their development as writers in a university context, targeting skills in attentive reading, thoughtful writing, and dialogical exchange through the study of short texts (literary, popular, and multimedia) about global cultures and issues.	1.86
engl-190	In this introductory Creative Writing workshop, students sharpen their writing craft by writing and workshopping in multiple genres while also studying contemporary practice. All sections of ENGL 190 involve creation of writing through prompts and exercises, editorial feedback through a variety of means, and the curation of a substantial written portfolio.	1.92
engl-191	In this course, students develop their writing craft by writing and workshopping in multiple genres while studying contemporary practice. All sections of ENGL 191 involve creation of writing through prompts and exercises, editorial feedback through a variety of means, the curation of a substantial electronic portfolio with an artist statement, and a focus on writing the series, or long project. This project will provide students with the skills needed to research and write a coherent and comprehensive serial or longer form work, which will form a significant portion of the curated ePortfolio.	2.08
engl-200	There is no single beginning to the story of Literature in English. The literary arts of the British Isles between the 10th and 17th centuries rise from tangled roots: mass migrations, linguistic and cultural borrowings, political and religious crises, colonial occupations, and philosophical revolutions. The bewildering variety of literary artforms from these centuries challenge modern notions of history and fiction, spirituality and the secular, selfhood and society. Reading widely across this long period, students will consider what it means to tell the story of literary history: whose voices count? Who gets left out? How does our sense of the past shape our present, and vice versa?	2.03
engl-201	Our sense of the modern world has been shaped by radical changes in how people tell stories that arose between the late-seventeenth and early-twentieth centuries, including (but not limited to) the invention of the modern novel, revolutions in poetic language, and the rise of cinema. In this course, students will consider how these and other genres responded and contributed to historical disruptions both massive and intimate: global wars, colonial resistance movements, scientific advancements, and new ways of experiencing sexuality, citizenship, and selfhood. Explorations of course readings will be animated through visual art, music, film, manuscripts, and digital archives.	2.1
engl-203	This course provides an introduction to Canadian literature from early European contact to the twenty-first century by examining a variety of storytelling genres that address prevalent themes and debates surrounding the complex, contested notion of the nation. Students will consider how the context of ongoing settler-colonialism informs Canada's diverse literary cultures and understandings of the nation.	2.02
engl-205	This course introduces students to the study of American literature and culture. What has been the contribution of US writing to the histories of the novel, poetry, theatre, and film, in conversation with a broader range of artforms? How has America's literary imaginary been shaped by its colonial and revolutionary history, slavery and postslavery, Indigenous dispossession, consumerism, industrialization/deindustrialization, and US geopolitical hegemony? Students will explore these and other questions through a sampling of some of the most exciting works in US literary history and criticism.	2.27
engl-207	This course introduces students to the dynamic history of literary theory and criticism, focusing on the last century and approaches such as formalism, structuralism, psychoanalysis, feminism, Marxism, poststructuralism, postcolonialism, critical Indigenous theories, queer theory, ecocriticism, and critical races studies.	2.12
engl-208	This course deepens knowledge of storytelling genres by exploring selected works of narrative fiction, such as novels, novellas, short stories, and graphic novels. Students will examine the literary, cultural, and historical qualities and contexts of these texts.	2.22
engl-213	This course examines literature from a variety of countries, cultures and traditions around the globe, either written in or translated into English.	2.2
engl-217	This course examines experimental and/or radical texts, genres, and topics. Students will study cultural and literary figures, movements, and art that resist mainstream society and that exist on the margins of traditional literary culture.	2.07
engl-218	This course explores the rich variety of children's literature, from picture books to YA (young adult) novels, and considers how writing for children	2.05
engl-219	This course examines works of literature alongside their film or television adaptations, exploring the textual and visual as distinct modes of expression while considering what is lost or gained in the translation of content from one medium to another.	2.28
engl-220	This course will help students from diverse fields improve the clarity and style of their writing. Students will read widely across scientific, social-scientific, and humanistic disciplines, applying strategies from a range of writers to their own written work. Drawing connections between academia and community, students will practice writing from their own fields of study with care, depth, and craft, experimenting to find their own unique voices while adapting to audience and context.	2.09
engl-260	This course introduces students to the practices, networks, and traditions that sustain the work of writing and storytelling in their myriad forms. Bridging the divide between creative and academic literary contexts, the course explores a range of histories, methods, and critical interventions to illuminate what it means to write within and for a given community. Examining key institutions of literary culture, scholarship, and community building (e.g., archives, movements, readings, journals, conferences), students will become familiar with the social processes that support literary research and will collaborate on final creative-scholarly projects.	2.23
engl-290	This is an intensive workshop in the writing of poetry, concentrating on understandings of poetic forms, voices, styles, and communities. Students will have the opportunity to experiment with a variety of traditional and innovative forms, such as the short lyric, the long poem, narrative verse, digital poetics, prose poetry, and expand their writerly voices.	2.27
engl-291	This is an intensive workshop in the writing of fiction, concentrating on narrative techniques in student writing and in a variety of published works of contemporary fiction. Students will have the opportunity to develop an awareness of voice, rhythm, dialogue, diction, character, and point-of- view as well as important cultural and decolonial contexts for reading and producing creative work.	2.18
engl-292	This is an intensive workshop in writing literature for children of various ages. Students will work on such forms as text for picture books, poetry and nonsense rhymes, and chapters of young adult novels. Critically examining gendered and settler colonial biases that have historically shaped creative writing workshops and the field of children's literature, students will respond to diverse artistic voices on their own terms and manifest self-awareness about their positionality as it relates to the learning environment and the kinds of children's literature they produce.	2.1
engl-293	This is an intensive workshop in the writing of creative nonfiction, concentrating on contemporary nonfiction forms, such as magazine articles, memoir, personal narrative, literary journalism, lyric essay, etc., as well as professional aspects of writing, such as the pitch, book proposals, and the editing process. Students will have the opportunity to explore important cultural and decolonial contexts for reading, developing, and distributing creative work.	2.18
engl-295	The focus of this Creative Writing course is determined by the individual instructor in consultation with the department. See the Department of English website for the focus of the course in a specific term.	2.04
engl-296	This is an introductory workshop in playwriting, covering fundamentals such as dramatic structure, characterization, and dialogue. Students will develop, edit, and rewrite works through readings and feedback. They will explore a variety of approaches to play creation and dramaturgy, which may include but are not limited to Indigenous, Euro-Western, and feminist practices.	2.27
engl-297	This is an intensive introduction to the writing of screenplays and scripts that builds and draws extensively on the literary arts. Focusing on short-form works, students will learn the fundamental key concepts of scriptwriting and the film production process, including the roles of the director, cinematographer, and other creative collaborators in the film and televisual arts. Students will explore the basic theory and formal aspects of story, dramatic structure, character development, and dialogue. Assignments may include original short screenplays and/or screenplay adaptations of one or more literary works.	2.1
engl-298	This is the first of two Writing Lives classes, in which students learn from Indigenous narratives and histories, before working with a residential school Survivor to produce a memoir of their lives. In ENGL 298, students learn from Indigenous literature/orature as well as Indigenous-settler history to develop methods and protocols for building a respectful, sensitive, Survivor-centered writing relationship. ENGL 298 serves as preparation for a second term's course (ENGL 299), when students meet regularly in small groups with a Survivor to co-create their memoir.	2.09
engl-299	This course is a continuation of ENGL 298: Writing Lives I, in which students will continue to learn about writing styles, structures, and conventions of memoir. This course pays particular attention to methods and protocols for developing a respectful, sensitive, Survivor-centered writing relationship. Students will meet regularly in small groups with a writing partner--a residential school Survivor--in order to interview, and ultimately co-write their memoir. To this end, students will learn respectful, Survivor-centered ethical interviewing techniques with the goal of producing a single, long-form memoir project in collaboration with Survivors.	2.04
engl-300	Building on writing, research, and revision skills introduced in ENGL 100, this course will deepen the writer's knowledge of rhetorical choices and awareness of current essay genres. Students will learn to effectively take the investigative project through all stages of composition - from inception and handling of research to revision and stylistic editing - and will gain confidence in writing in a variety of modes.	2.62
engl-305	This course studies selected works of Canadian literature in any genre(s) that are important for their artistic, cultural, and/or historical content and contexts. Depending on the term, iterations of the course may focus on specific approaches, critical issues, and/or literary periods. Sample course titles: Canadian Ecocritical Literature, Postcolonial and Decolonial Literatures in Canada, Canadian Literary Urban Fiction, the Canadian Graphic Novel.	2.48
engl-320	This course will focus on a specific topic in postcolonial, transnational, diasporic, or global Indigenous literature and poetics. Students will explore how writers around the world have recrafted their art in response to the forces that have shaped our global society. Readings may include both historical and contemporary works as well as texts in translation.	2.54
engl-323	This course focuses on the emergence and persistence of a specific literary or non-literary genre, such as the gothic novel, lyric poetry, modernist elegy, tragic drama, detective story, travel narrative or memoir/autobiography. The course is intended to develop a deep critical awareness of the formal techniques and social contexts of a given genre's representation of experience.	2.6
engl-329	This course examines literary performances, plays, and practices, as well as the performative dimensions of other types of expression. Students will be introduced to, and will use, a range of theoretical perspectives and methods to analyze a variety of performance texts and contexts. This might include studying theatre, film, dance, gesture and physicality, gender, the internet and online performances, and everyday site specific performances.	2.63
engl-332	This course engages students in the study of literature from the standpoint of politics. Questions to be explored may include the following: what can literary study teach us about justice, freedom, and sovereignty? What role has literature played in political struggles such as those connected to settler colonialism, inequality, and climate change? How do the techniques of literary criticism draw from or contribute to political analysis? What would it meant to read a literary artwork as a form of political theory - or as a political act?	2.42
engl-338	This course explores literary art criticism within the framework of media studies. Students will consider the diverse forms and technologies that have shaped written and oral literature, and will situate literary texts within our increasingly diverse landscape of media forms.	2.56
engl-344	This course explores literature in the context of recent environmental and ecological thought.	2.69
engl-352	Pre-modern poetic cultures were characterized by a dizzying variety of literary and interpretive practices, encompassing oral and written poetry,	2.46
engl-353	The invention and institutionalization of literature as we know it occurred between the late-sixteenth and early-nineteenth centuries, alongside vast political and cultural changes - the rise of settler-colonial empires, a reading middle class, women's entrance into the literary marketplace, scientific and industrial revolutions, and the first truly global wars. How were literary innovations in realism, character, diction, prosody, and performance shaped by these historical contexts, and what do they reveal about the world we live in now?	2.44
engl-354	The idea of literature as a distinct discipline developed side-by-side with the capitalist world system, which from the mid-nineteenth century onward has faced a series of crises that have revealed violent global interdependencies and prompted radical social change. The literary arts correspondingly underwent profound transformations in form, language, and media that persisted through to the end of the twentieth century. How can we understand these innovations in relation to historical shifts in sexuality, decolonization, race, science, technology, and the environment?	2.53
engl-358	This course studies distinctive features of contemporary culture through works of literature written from roughly 1970 to the present day.	2.45
engl-359	This course focuses on the diverse and creative survival, resistance, and healing strategies Indigenous peoples have developed in the face of systemic oppression. Reading lists may include Indigenous literatures from around the world, and may focus on a single author, a literary movement, or a theoretical perspective.	2.68
engl-363	This course investigates key genres of English literature and the processes of their formation and transformation. In a seminar setting foregrounding accountable reading, shared inquiry, and collaborative critical dialogue, students will study a wide range of prose, poetry, and performance texts - from the classical to the modern to the contemporary - exploring the ways in which the formal conventions of genres and subgenres have been shaped and reshaped by the particular contexts in which they emerge.	2.63
engl-365	This course investigates literary and cultural traditions and countertraditions with a focus on their local, global, and postcolonial contexts. In a seminar setting foregrounding accountable reading, shared inquiry, and collaborative critical dialogue, students will study how a wide range of writers, artists, and other thinkers have imagined, articulated, critiqued, and in some cases revised such concepts as personhood, citizenship, justice, and community through varied uses of narrative, storytelling, and other modes of representation.	2.48
engl-367	This course offers experiential study of the literature, history, and culture of a Land School location, with a focus on introducing students to Indigenous ways of knowing. The Land School may be organized around critical approach, historical period, decolonizing practices, or geographical and cultural area. The course has three parts: classroom time, a one- to two-week immersive Land School experience that encourages students to consider place as a form of learning, and opportunities for reflection.	2.6
engl-369	This course is designed for all students who wish to learn about some of the philosophies and practices involved in the teaching of reading, writing, revision, and literature. Offering a hands-on, experiential approach to a range of relevant pedagogies, the course will not only equip students for future positions as writing tutors, teachers, and editors, but also help them sharpen their own writing skills.	2.6
engl-390	This course focuses on developments in poetry and poetics since the 1970s such as the long poem, serial forms, procedural writing, language-centred writing, ecopoetics, conceptual writing, visual poetry, prose poetry, documentarian forms, poet's theatre, guerrilla poetry, dialect and patois, and new media. See the Department of English website for the focus of the course in a specific term.	2.56
engl-391	This course focuses on developments in fiction and narrative since the 1970s such as new narrative, genre fiction, graphic novels, microfiction, the city-novel, appropriated narratives, biofiction, new media, and other forms and modes.	2.5
engl-392	This course offers students an opportunity to write and read about the different ways of interacting with place. The course will explore the world's histories, landscapes, violence, decay, marvels, and futures through diverse geographical, cultural, aesthetic, and thematic outlooks. The workshop component of the course will allow students to critically and creatively engage with the world they inhabit and transform their engagement into powerful stories.	2.64
engl-393	This course presupposes that students have current portfolios. It addresses advanced practices, methods, and techniques used by writers working in a variety of literary genres. Topics include conceptualizing large projects, research methods in the literary genres, global restructuring of manuscripts, examining the writing process, and experimenting with new procedures. In addition to lectures and workshops, local guest writers will visit the class to discuss these aspects of their practice.	2.56
engl-394	Students will adapt material (such as short stories, poems, and essays) from other writing classes, as well as from other sources, for text-based performance genres such as the screenplay, the radio drama, poets theatre, movie telling, and/or the podcast. Collaboration will be encouraged.	2.52
engl-395	The focus of this Creative Writing course is determined by the individual instructor in consultation with the department. Examples might include New Media, Writing and the Body, Transmissions, or Writing from the Land.	2.54
engl-398	This course focuses on digital genres of creative writing. Engaging with texts in a range of forms, students will learn to analyze and model sources that emerge specifically from online communities of writers. The outcome of this class is greater writing versatility through a deep engagement with the online literary archive and hands-on experimentation with diverse written forms.	2.46
engl-399	This upper-level course focuses on versatility and cross-pollination in creative writing genres. Students will read diverse literary samples, from the traditional to the experimental, to examine how form is connected to the cultural and societal impact of literary texts. Students will then attempt multiple creative experiments by modeling and adapting form with a range of cultural and societal considerations in mind.	2.66
engl-400	This course offers an in-depth study of a single author.	2.76
engl-420	This course offers an in-depth study of a selected topic in literary-critical theory.	2.62
engl-435	This course examines electronic literature (literature created exclusively on and for digital devices, such as computers, tablets, and mobile phones). Students will consider the genre as a form possessing computer-driven aesthetics - such as speed, animation, and multimodal semiotics - that produce different literary effects and reading practices.	2.9
engl-463	This course investigates histories and modes of criticism and the relation between theory and other creative and cultural formations. In a seminar setting foregrounding accountable reading, shared inquiry, and collaborative critical dialogue, students will survey a wide range of critical and literary theories, analyze the social and institutional contexts of their emergence, situate them in relation to each other, and evaluate their impact on both scholarly and creative practices in the 20th and 21st centuries.	2.74
engl-464	In this course, students will refine a creative or critical work of their own making as well as collaboratively produce a professional-quality anthology publication for both print and web formats. Beginning with a brief history and assessment of the anthology form itself, the course will guide students through every stage of the production process, inviting them to try a variety of tasks and allowing them to specialize in the publishing-related role of their choice.	2.63
engl-465	This is a work-experience course that connects students with a host organization in a relevant field or industry. The Practicum is conducted under the mentorship of a Capilano faculty member and a supervisor from the host organization. Students gain valuable experience applying their skills in research, writing, critical thinking, and imaginative problem-solving in a unique real-world setting, discovering how their training and knowledge can be used in various business, education, research, or cultural contexts.	2.68
engl-466	Students will work with an English faculty member and be guided in the development of a research-based project. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the English Department Coordinator.	2.86
engl-467	In this course students in the English Honours program undertake a research project culminating in a graduating honours thesis. The course is delivered over two terms, the first devoted to reading and research for the project, the second to the drafting and completion of the written thesis.	2.83
engl-490	Students will work with an English faculty member and be guided in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of English website for complete details on the application process. Admission is by permission of the instructor and the department.	2.84
engl-491	Students will work with an instructor to guide them with a topic-based analytical/creative project, approved by the student's advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Creative Writing Convenor.	2.83
engl-496	This course in Literary Publishing will be the first of a two-term suite of classes focusing on the creation and production of a print and online publication, from concept to design to publication to launch. This studio-style class will provide opportunities for students to fill multiple roles in literary publishing in publicity, acquisitions, editorial and event planning. Assignments will reflect the multiple roles on a production team, including marketing, design, writing and editing. Following completion of ENGL 496, students are expected to take ENGL 497 Literary Publishing II in the subsequent semester.	2.53
engl-497	This course in Literary Publishing is the second in a two-course suite (following ENGL 496: Literary Publishing I) that will focus on the production of a print and online publication, from publication to launch. This studio-style class will provide opportunities for students to fill multiple roles in literary publishingin publicity, acquisitions, editorial and event planning. Assignments will reflect the multiple roles on a production team, including marketing, design, writing and editing. The term will culminate in a public reading and launch event for the print edition of the publication.	2.52
eal-057	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Upper Beginner level. It includes listening (basic discussions), speaking (basic conversations), and pronunciation (vowels, consonants, word stress and rhythm).	3.11
eal-058	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Upper Beginner level. It includes reading (skimming and scanning for topic, main idea and details), and vocabulary building (word structure and context clues).	3.47
eal-059	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Upper Beginner level. It includes grammar (basic grammar) and writing (simple and compound sentences).	3.4
eal-067	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Lower Intermediate level. It includes listening (basic discussions on a variety of topics), speaking (basic conversations in general situations), and pronunciation (vowels, consonants and word stress).	2.85
eal-068	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Lower Intermediate level. It includes reading (skimming and scanning for topic, main idea and details), and vocabulary building (word structure and context clues).	3.04
eal-069	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Lower Intermediate level. It includes grammar (meaningful and appropriate use of all basic structures) and writing (compound and complex sentences).	3.17
eal-077	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Intermediate level. It includes listening (various casual and professional situations, note-taking as an active listening strategy, understanding the details of discussions), speaking (relaxed speech structures, discussions and presentations on a variety of casual and professional topics), and pronunciation (vowels, consonants, stress and rhythm).	2.85
eal-078	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Intermediate level. It includes reading (skimming and scanning for topic, main idea and details, improving comprehension and speed), and vocabulary building (word structure and context clues).	2.98
eal-079	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Intermediate level. It includes grammar (form and appropriate use) and writing (sentences, paragraphs and simple correspondence).	3.26
eal-087	    This course advances students' English language skills starting at the Upper Intermediate level. It includes listening (understanding detailed discussions, critical listening, note-taking), speaking (structured presentations, complex discussions, debates), and pronunciation (advanced stress, rhythm, and intonation patterns).	3.4
eal-088	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Upper Intermediate level. It includes reading (relating reading to own knowledge, determining accuracy of information) and vocabulary building (expanding vocabulary recognition skills, context clue knowledge, making inferences).	3.24
eal-089	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Upper-Intermediate level. It includes grammar (accurate and appropriate use of structures) and writing (sentences, paragraphs, service and business correspondence).	3.22
eal-097	    This course further develops students' English language skills starting at the Lower Advanced level. It includes listening (critical listening, extensive note-taking, evaluating spoken arguments), speaking (advanced presentations, debates, discussions), and pronunciation (refined stress, rhythm, and intonation).	3.44
eal-098	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Lower Advanced level. It includes reading (decoding meaning and recognizing stereotypes, biases and clichs; identifying supporting details for main ideas; determining accuracy and distinguishing between important and unimportant information), and vocabulary building (expanding knowledge of word structure and context clues).	3.12
eal-099	    This course provides students with English language skills starting at the Lower Advanced level. It includes grammar (self-correcting frequent grammatical and word choice errors) and writing (writing paragraphs, essays and a range of business or service correspondence).	3.16
esl-031	    This course helps students develop the listening and speaking skills required for entry into the Upper Intermediate Level. Course topics include idioms, formal/informal English, oral reports, listening practice, vocabulary and pronunciation.	3.38
esl-038	    The focus of this course is on the development of basic reading, comprehension and vocabulary skills while learning skimming and scanning, identifying main ideas, using the dictionary, using context clues, and understanding and stating pronoun referents.	3.3
esl-039	    This course prepares students with the grammar and writing skills required for ESL. 049, it focuses on intermediate-level grammar, sentence structure, and sentence writing assignments.	3.26
esl-041	    This course helps students develop the listening and speaking skills required for entry into the Advanced Level. Course topics include idioms, impromptu speeches, oral reports, relaxed conversational forms, pronunciation, and listening practice.	3.01
esl-048	    This course is designed to improve students' reading comprehension and vocabulary in preparation for the Advanced Level. Course topics include identifying main ideas and details, vocabulary development, word families and context clues.	3.24
esl-049	    This course helps students develop the grammar and writing skills required for the Advanced Level. Stress is on sentence structure, grammar, and short writing assignments.	3.38
esl-051	    This course assists students in developing the listening and speaking skills required for entry into the Upper Advanced Level. The focus is on idioms, relaxed speech structures, listening to lectures and note taking, oral presentations, rhythm, stress and intonation.	2.88
esl-058	    This course introduces students to reading skills and vocabulary development at the Advanced Level. Stress will be placed on improving comprehension, increasing reading speed, using context clues and making inferences.	2.9
esl-059	    This course introduces more complex grammatical structures used in controlled and free paragraph writing. It prepares students for the sentence and writing skills required for ESL. 069.	3.3
esl-061	    This course assists students in developing the listening and speaking skills required for entry into post secondary Preparatory English courses. The focus will be on the comprehension and discussion of academic lecture material, idioms and relaxed speech structures, oral reports, debates, listening improvement, rhythm, and intonation.	3.1
esl-068	    This course is designed to raise students' reading and vocabulary skills to the level where they can enter post secondary Preparatory English courses. Focus will be on recognizing different types of writing, organizational patterns, identifying point of view, and making inferences.	3.28
esl-069	    The emphasis in this course is on composing at the paragraph level. The aim of this course is to bring ESL students' writing skills up to the level required for post secondary Preparatory English courses.	3.46
esl-071	    This course helps students improve their oral and listening skills to prepare them for college studies.  Students will practise speaking through oral reports, summarizing, and debates. Through group work, both formal and informal speech patterns will be explored. Vocabulary development will also be stressed as students incorporate new words and expressions in their speech.	3.24
esl-078	    This course introduces the ESL student to the basic reading and vocabulary skills necessary for entry into the University Transfer and Career/Vocational divisions. Focus will be on reading comprehension at the literary, inferential and critical levels. Course material will include sample texts from various content areas.	3.16
esl-079	    This course will focus on the paragraph as the standard medium for written communications. It will also introduce students to the essay as the standard medium for academic writing. The course will continue to refine the usage of all grammatical structures.	3.33
eap-050	    This intensive course provides students with English language skills at the Lower Intermediate level. It also provides a foundation for the EAP 1-4 program. It includes reading (skimming and scanning for topic, main idea and details), vocabulary building (word structure and context clues), grammar (basic grammar), writing (simple and compound sentences), listening (basic discussions), speaking (basic conversations), and pronunciation (vowels, consonants, word stress and rhythm).	3.47
eap-060	    This intensive course provides students with English language skills at the Lower Intermediate level. It also provides a foundation for the EAP 1-4 program. It includes reading (skimming and scanning for topic, main idea and details), vocabulary building (word structure and context clues), grammar (basic grammar), writing (simple and compound sentences), listening (basic discussions), speaking (basic conversations), and pronunciation (vowels, consonants, word stress and rhythm).	3.05
eap-070	    This intensive course provides students with academic language skills integrated with academic content to the EAP 1 level. It includes reading (improving comprehension, improving speed, using context clues), vocabulary building, grammar (form and appropriate use), writing (controlled and free paragraph writing), listening (lectures, note-taking, understanding the details of discussions on a variety of topics), speaking (idioms, relaxed speech structures, discussions and presentations on academic topics), and pronunciation (rhythm, stress and intonation).	3.26
eap-080	    This intensive course provides students with academic language skills integrated with academic content to the EAP 2 level. It includes reading (relating reading to own knowledge, determining accuracy of information), vocabulary building (expanding vocabulary recognition skills, context clue knowledge, making inferences), grammar (accurate and appropriate use of structures), writing (complex and compound-complex sentences, paragraphs and essays), listening (lectures, note taking, oral presentations), speaking (handling complicated tasks and social situations, discussions, narration techniques, debates), and pronunciation (pause fillers, rate of speech, improving diction).	3.1
eap-090	    This intensive course provides students with academic language skills integrated with academic content to the EAP 3 level. It includes reading (using grammar knowledge to decode meaning and recognize stereotypes, biases and clichs; identifying supporting details for main ideas; determining accuracy and distinguishing between important and unimportant information), vocabulary building (expanding knowledge of word structure and context clues), grammar (self-correcting frequent grammatical and word choice errors), writing (writing argumentative essays; supporting and developing academic topics), listening (comprehending and discussing academic lectures), speaking (using technical vocabulary, idioms and relaxed speech structures; practicing oral reporting and summarizing), and pronunciation (rhythm and intonation).	3.2
eap-099	    This course supports students building academic reading and writing skills integrated with authentic academic content.	3.23
eap-100	    This intensive course provides students with advanced academic writing, grammar, and listening skills integrated with academic content to the EAP 4A-B level. This course will honour Indigenous ways of Learning and Knowing, the differences between knowledge-based understandings and experience-based understandings.	1.86
eap-101	    This intensive course will provide students with advanced academic reading, vocabulary, and speaking skills integrated with academic content to the EAP 4A-B level. This course will honour Indigenous ways of Learning and Knowing, the differences between knowledge-based understandings and experience-based understandings.	1.82
eas-100	    This course assists advanced level English as an Additional language (EAL) students in developing integral language and academic literacy skills for success in early university years.  Students will develop essential critical thinking skills for effective academic reading, enabling them to comprehend and analyze complex texts, evaluate arguments, and synthesize information for deeper engagement with the material. Throughout, students will clearly and concisely express text comprehension and analysis in both written and oral assignments. This course will honour Indigenous ways of Learning and Knowing.	2.08
ensm-100	An exploration of choral music from the Renaissance to the present. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance, diction and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	1.87
ensm-110	An exploration of the vast instrumental repertoire available. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	1.85
ensm-150	This course is an exploration of choral music from the medieval period to present day. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance, diction and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	2.02
ensm-160	An exploration of the vast instrumental repertoire available. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	2.03
ensm-200	This course is an exploration of choral music from the medieval period to present day. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance, diction and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	2.09
ensm-210	An exploration of the vast instrumental repertoire available. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	2.06
ensm-250	This course is an exploration of choral music from the Medieval period to present day. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance, diction and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	2.03
ensm-260	An exploration of the vast instrumental repertoire available. Emphasis will be placed on ensemble, tuning, tone quality, musical phrasing, balance and professional presentation. A varied concert program will be learned and several performances will be given each semester. An audition is required.	2.02
ensm-300	To learn vocal ensemble techniques through practical experience.	2.48
ensm-350	To learn vocal ensemble techniques through practical experience.	2.66
elct-130	The primary focus of this course is to provide students with the minimum skills required to take an entry-level production position in the film and television industry in British Columbia, and to provide a thorough overview of film and television production principles and practices.	2.01
enso-100	This is a broad-spectrum multi-disciplinary seminar course. Topics delivered address the approach and findings of key initiatives around biodiversity, conservation, ecosystem integrity and sustainable development. At the core of the course will be presentations and discussions of the multifaceted nature of environmental issues and forward-facing solutions across ecological, and human social and cultural landscapes. This course will take students from awareness to action by helping them understand the key issues and catalysts which can drive and accelerate change.	2.06
enso-200	This is an interdisciplinary theory-practise course introducing students to the regions of Atlka7tsen/ Howe Sound, Burrard Inlet and shishalh/ Sechelt. It focuses on the natural, cultural and economic features of the areas. Students explore components that constitute and define a region - ecology and geography, Indigenous history and traditional knowledge, population growth and urbanization, regional infrastructure and governance as well as the basic assessment methodologies of economic, social, and environmental health and sustainability. Work-place integrated placements support a community field-based project.	2.03
enso-300	This course is a practical action course where students develop and implement a community-based environmental stewardship project. Projects will be nature-based solutions benefiting natural and human communities. Projects may include civic action, community education and awareness, restoration and conservation and will be developed and implemented with community partners. Work-place integrated placements support projects. A weeklong field school starts the course to support the teaching of needed field skills and to allow engagement with community partners with sustainability plans and projects in place.	2.41
enso-301	This course introduces students to Traditional Ecological knowledge, and the teachings of Indigenous peoples and their relationship with the natural environment, both historically and in contemporary times. Traditional Knowledges provide the base for most Indigenous populations to operate and evolve through generations of experience and years of observation. This knowledge illuminates both past and future functioning and components of natural systems. It is acknowledged that traditional ecological knowledge can enhance western approaches to conservation and sustainability initiatives.	2.48
enso-310	Biosphere regions are areas of global ecological significance and are ideal sites to study sustainable community development, adaptive resource management, and social and ecological resilience. Of the near 600 UNESCO biosphere reserves in the world, 19 are in Canada. This course will examine biospheres such as BC's Clayoquot Biosphere, Mt. Arrowsmith Biosphere and Howe Sound Biosphere Region as a set of social and ecological systems with a key objective of linking practical experience with theoretical concepts related to sustainability and complex systems.	2.67
enso-401	Physical landscapes inform human language, culture and practices of resource use. This course addresses the inter-disciplinary world of ethnoecology.  Building on a base of ethnoscience, the course encompasses the concepts of ethnobotany and ethnozoology, and Indigenous ways of knowing and being.  Students will gain a basic understanding of plant biology, zoology and taxonomy, scientific methods of plant collection and consider how to translate and apply this information to ethnoecological issues, ecoliteracy, biocultural diversity and ecosystem management.  Lectures are enhanced with field studies.	2.79
enso-402	The course addresses the need to apply the practices already in place to protect biodiversity and, in tandem, work toward creating an ethical space of engagement to bring together Indigenous knowledge systems and Western scientific approaches. The course introduces the skills required to recognize culturally important sites and to gather information on Traditional Ecological Knowledge and practices in culturally respectful and reciprocal ways.  Lectures will be augmented by Indigenous knowledge holders, other guest speakers and, with permission of and in partnership with First Nation Communities, visits to traditional sites of resource use and conservation.	3.0
enso-403	Environmental impact assessment (EIA) is a legislated requirement for land planning and natural resource management. As a planning tool, EIA aims to predict, evaluate and mitigate the impacts of a proposed project, program or policy prior to its undertaking in order to minimize or avoid adverse effects. The course will introduce students to federal, provincial, and municipal legislation and provide opportunities to explore current practices, processes and prevailing techniques used in EIA.	2.64
enso-490	This capstone course provides students the background support and platform for production of a culminating piece of academic work built around an applied project directly connected to the local community and region through a work integrated learning initiative. Students will be guided/mentored in: (1) the selection of a topic or project; (2) the design of the research or inquiry; and (3) the completion of the academic work or project.	2.65
fdsc-100	Field schools provide students with an opportunity to complete one or more for-credit course(s) in a location that enhances and complements the learning experience. For-credit course content is integrated with the field school experience in a meaningful way, and the level of the field school (100-400) is determined by the level of the for-credit course(s).	1.84
fdsc-200	Field schools provide students with an opportunity to complete one or more for-credit course(s) in a location that enhances and complements the learning experience. For-credit course content is integrated with the field school experience in a meaningful way, and the level of the field school (100-400) is determined by the level of the for-credit course(s).	2.19
fdsc-300	Field schools provide students with an opportunity to complete one or more for-credit course(s) in a location that enhances and complements the learning experience. For-credit course content is integrated with the field school experience in a meaningful way, and the level of the field school (100-400) is determined by the level of the for-credit course(s).	2.65
fdsc-400	Field schools provide students with an opportunity to complete one or more for-credit course(s) in a location that enhances and complements the learning experience. For-credit course content is integrated with the field school experience in a meaningful way, and the level of the field school (100-400) is determined by the level of the for-credit course(s).	2.6
fins-399	This course will expand the students' filmmaking skills including understanding and executing solid story structure in both script and film form.  Carrying out numerous filmmaking tasks to acculturate students to a professional motion picture production environment, expanding their rsums, and building their relationships in the world of commercial filmmaking.	2.56
film-180	This course introduces students to the various roles and responsibilities of the filmmaking team. The fundamentals of production and an introduction to cinematic language are described and implemented through classwork and hands-on filmmaking.	1.96
film-181	A supervised film project includes development, pre-production, production, and post-production. Mentorship and supervision focus on technical competence, professionalism and realization of content.	1.95
film-250	This course explores the development of narrative ideas for cinema, the creative aspects of screenplay writing and will give an appreciation and understanding of the screenplay's significance in the film making process. Course elements include analysis of the internal and external structures, the story arc, applying visual components and creation of a story treatment.	2.13
film-251	This course develops technical skills in photography, video, lighting, audio production and media editing for acting students to apply to their project work and audiovisual communications in the field.	2.22
film-308	This course explores what a documentary is, the history of documentary film, the techniques used by documentary filmmakers to tell their stories, and how documentary films are developed, produced, and distributed. Students will also develop their own story ideas and direct and shoot a live-action short in camera documentary as they establish a basic foundation in documentary cinema arts.	2.45
film-321	This course is the continuation of ASAS 321 and will focus on a selection of late 20th century and early 21st century stage/film directors. Students will explore the selected director's work through lecture, discussion, in-class scene study and screenings  from a cinematic perspective.	2.5
film-323	This course examines contemporary, cross-cultural queer cinema in the mainstream studio, independent and international film industries and the relationship between queer cinema and the global film communities.	2.44
film-333	In this course, students explore the development, production, post-production and roll-out strategy of an independently financed, ultra low-budget feature length motion picture. The course is designed around the creative core of a feature film, from development to distribution. Participation, initiative and communication are required and students should be prepared and willing to share their project along the way.	2.54
film-349	This course provides students with the unique opportunity to enhance and complement their learning experience through an on-location international field school and the use of digital media technology as a means of research and study. In preparation, classes will explore visual storytelling, film language and the techniques used by filmmakers when working on location. Students will research and develop their own story ideas in order to create a digital project within the historical and cultural context of the field school locations, including Indigenous communities.	2.4
film-382	Working closely with the Acting for Stage and Screen program, the Motion Picture Arts program helps to provide a grounding in the skills required to prepare and perform a role in traditional and advanced technical environments common in contemporary media production. Instruction is by a professional film and television director and a Motion Capture expert, with a special focus on delivering practical experience in virtual space and motion capture performance.	2.42
fnst-100	This course tells the story of Skwxw7meshulh Uxwumxw (The Squamish People) from a Skwxw7mesh perspective. The story is represented in the oral tradition, passed down from past generations of speakers. This course focuses on expressions of collective identity, which can be seen as the sharing of a common territory, language, owned and shared resource sites and rights, kinship (both blood and marriage relations) and various complex cultural and political relationships.	1.83
fnst-101	This course tells the story of Skwxw7meshulh Uxwumxw (the Squamish people) and their relation with the living world from a Skwxw7mesh perspective. This story is represented in the oral tradition, passed down in oral texts from past generations of speakers. The knowledge was transmitted in the Squamish Language and we will explore what language can tell us about the Squamish people and their relationship with the living world.	2.07
fnst-102	This course tells the story of the Ucwalmcw (the Lil'wat people) from an Lil'wat perspective. The story is represented in the oral tradition, passed down from past generations of speakers. The knowledge was transmitted in Ucwalmcwts (the Lil'wat language) and we will explore what language can tell us about Lil'wat culture and social structure. This course focuses on expressions of collective identity, which can be seen as the sharing of a common territory, language, owned and shared resource sites and rights, kinship (both blood and marriage relations) and various complex cultural and political relationships.	1.84
fnst-103	This course tells the story of the Ucwalmicw (the Lil'wat people) from a Lil'wat perspective. This story is represented in the oral tradition, passed down in oral texts from past generations of speakers. The knowledge was transmitted in Ucwalmicwts (the Lil'wat language) and we will explore what language can tell us about the Lil'wat people and their relationship with the living world.	1.83
fnst-104	This course tells the story of the Shshlh (the Sechelt people) from a Sechelt perspective. The story is represented in the oral tradition, passed down from past generations of speakers in Shshshlhem (the Sechelt language). This course focuses on expressions of collective identity, which can be seen as the sharing of a common territory, language, owned and shared resource sites and rights, kinship (both blood and marriage relations) and various complex cultural and political relationships.	2.05
fnst-105	This course tells the story of the Shshlh (the Sechelt people) from a Sechelt perspective. This story is represented in the oral tradition, passed down in oral texts from past generations of speakers in Shshshlhem (the Sechelt language). We will explore what language can tell us about the Sechelt people and their relationship with the living world.	1.87
fnlg-100	FNLG 100 will take a communicative approach to language learning and will focus on comprehension. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Skwxw7mesh Snchim (the Squamish language) for describing the self and family.  The family, as seen from a Skwxw7mesh perspective, will be the central theme of this course.	1.9
fnlg-101	This course will continue utilizing the communicative approach to language learning and will focus on both comprehension and speaking. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire the vocabulary in Skwxw7mesh Snchim (the Squamish language) from a short story entitled Hussa.	1.88
fnlg-102	This course will take a communicative approach to language learning and will focus on comprehension. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Ucwalmicwts (the Lil'wat language) for describing the self and family. The family, as seen from a Lil'wat perspective, will be the central theme of this course.	1.82
fnlg-103	This course will continue utilizing the communicative approach to language learning and will focus on both comprehension and speaking. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Ucwalmicwts (the Lil'wat language) for describing the living world, from a Lil'wat perspective.	1.88
fnlg-104	In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Ucwalmcwts (the Lil'wat language) for describing cycles (the seasonal round, the cycles of life, the life cycle of salmon), from a Lil'wat perspective.	1.89
fnlg-105	In this course, we will focus on selected master works of the Lil'wat oral tradition, as well as study the grammar of complex constructions.	2.04
fnlg-106	This course will take a communicative approach to language learning and will focus on comprehension. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. The course will use as its guide the short story Sealiya.	2.06
fnlg-107	This course will take a communicative approach to language learning and will focus on comprehension. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. The course will use as its guide the short story Sinulhk'ay'.	2.0
fnlg-108	This course will take a communicative approach to language learning and will focus on comprehension. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Shshshlhem (the Sechelt language) for describing the self and family.  The family, as seen from a Sechelt perspective, will be the central theme of this course.	2.05
fnlg-109	This course will continue utilizing the communicative approach to language learning and will focus on both comprehension and speaking. It will incorporate effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Shshshlhem (the Sechelt language) for describing the living world, from a Sechelt perspective.	1.95
fnlg-110	This course utilizes the communicative approach to language learning and will focus on both comprehension and speaking. It incorporates effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, students will acquire basic vocabulary in Shshshlhem (the Sechelt language) for describing cycles (the seasonal round, the cycles of life, the life cycle of salmon), from a Sechelt perspective.	2.06
fnlg-111	This course utilizes the communicative approach to language learning and will focus on both comprehension and speaking. It incorporates effective language learning strategies such as TPR (Total Physical Response) and TPR Storytelling. In this course, we will focus on selected master works of the oral tradition.	1.87
fys-100	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.81
fys-101	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.08
fys-102	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.0
fys-110	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.0
fys-111	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.8
fys-112	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.0
fys-120	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.9
fys-121	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.05
fys-122	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.82
fys-130	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.9
fys-131	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.05
fys-132	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.9
fys-140	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.93
fys-141	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	2.06
fys-142	    This course provides an introduction to academic and campus life by engaging students in inquiry, discussion, and dialogue of a range of intriguing topics. Each seminar focuses on a different topic and concentrates on developing critical thinking, group discussion and collaboration, research and writing skills that help support students as they transition to post-secondary life. Topics will differ by section depending on faculty expertise and area of scholarship.	1.98
fren-100	This course is for absolute beginners and those who do not have Grade 11 French or the equivalent.  It provides an intensive introduction to the French language, enhanced by computer practice, and an introduction to francophone culture.  It aims to develop proficiency in all areas of communication: listening, reading, speaking, and writing.  With FREN 101, it constitutes Grade 11 French.	1.9
fren-101	This course is designed to develop a solid beginner proficiency in all areas of communication (speaking, listening, reading and writing) and to acquaint students with cultures of the French-speaking world. Together with FREN 100, it covers high school French Grades 8, 9, 10 and 11.	1.81
fren-150	This course further develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in French in a low-stress, dynamic classroom. It assumes a beginner knowledge of French and will bring students close to an intermediate level as it consolidates previously acquired language skills. This course will also increase students' awareness of Francophone cultures in relation to their own.	1.97
fren-204	This course should be taken after Grade 12 core French. It continues the linguistic development of the student by means of grammar revision, weekly written and oral exercises, compositions and appreciation of francophone culture and literature. Students who have studied French Immersion for seven years or more, or students with native-like speaking ability in French, should register in FREN 270/271 or FREN 215 instead. Please note that FREN 204 and FREN 205 can be taken in any order.	2.11
fren-205	This course should be taken after Grade 12 core French. It continues the linguistic development of the student by means of grammar revision, weekly written and oral exercises, compositions and appreciation of francophone culture and literature. FREN 205 and 204 address different linguistic skills and can be taken in any order; however, after having taken both, students should be at the intermediate French level.	2.16
fren-215	This course is designed to help the students develop their ability to communicate more accurately orally in French. In class exercises will include: theatre, tongue-twisters, role plays, a cultural journal, discussions, presentations, listening exercises, vocabulary, idiomatic expressions, and the study of songs, interviews and film clips.	2.07
fren-219	This course introduces students to techniques for clear and effective writing in multiple genres.  Readings from contemporary Francophone authors are used to illustrate best practices.  Students will develop their knowledge of grammar and vocabulary while learning techniques for self-editing, description, narration and persuasion.	2.21
fren-270	This advanced course is an introduction to a variety of fiction and non-fiction texts by francophone authors. It offers a review of French grammar aimed at developing writing skills through practice in composition, translation, and grammar exercises. Various media will enhance students' awareness of francophone culture. FREN 270 and 271 address different linguistic skills and can be taken in any order; however, after having taken both, students should be at the advanced level.	2.26
fren-271	This advanced course is an introduction to a variety of fiction and non-fiction texts with an emphasis on francophone authors outside France. It offers a review of French grammar aimed at developing writing skills through practice in composition, translation, and exercises. Various media will enhance students' awareness of francophone culture. FREN 270 and 271 address different linguistic skills and can be taken in any order; however, after having taken both, students should be at the advanced level.	2.03
fren-315	This course examines the history and development of French cinema from the first films of Lumire brothers in 1895 to contemporary French filmmakers.  Using a chronological and thematic framework, the course will analyze films from the major directors and movements of French filmaking.	2.52
fren-330	This course examines Quebec literature and culture through the study of literary texts, cinema, and other art forms.  Emphasis will be placed on situating these texts within the historical development of Quebec society, culture, and politics. This course will be taught entirely in French.	2.66
gate-100	Students develop and enhance their skills, attitudes and tools related to career planning and the securing and maintaining of employment.	1.89
gate-101	Students develop the personal skills, attitudes and values that will provide tools and inspiration for successful, long-term career and lifestyle management.	1.92
gate-102	Students develop an understanding of personal lifestyle issues as they pertain to career and lifestyle management, financial independence, self-esteem and confidence.	1.92
gate-103	This course enables students to develop and practice the workplace skills and attitudes required for career success.	1.99
gate-104	This introductory course provides students with basic computer skills.	1.82
geog-100	Different cultures in different landscapes are compared and contrasted to our own. This course examines the many issues of human population, perception of the environment, diffusion of ideas, and cultural aspects of resource use and urban growth, to give students a view into the many concerns on the human side of geography.	2.01
geog-101	We are living in the age of human influence. Humans impact nearly every Earth system. Geography, which is the study of Earth's physical and human aspects, is the ideal discipline to study the human-environment nexus. In this course, students examine the Anthropocene era and investigate how social, economic, political, spatial, and biophysical processes shape society's relationship to nature, management of resources, and contemporary environmental change. Environmental issues are complex. How can human ingenuity solve these problems?	1.94
geog-112	This introductory physical geography course about Earth's landforms explores how plate tectonics operating below Earth's surface, and gravity, rivers, glaciers, waves and wind operating at Earth's surface, shape the natural landscape that surrounds us. The course focuses on Canadian landforms and emphasizes ways in which human activities are affecting natural processes.	1.82
geog-114	This introductory physical geography course about the atmosphere explores the forces that produce the weather we experience every day, with a focus on the weather of B.C.'s coast. We also consider how weather patterns operate differently from place to place to create the great diversity of climates on Earth, and how human actions are leading to global climate change.	1.86
geog-200	An examination of the concepts and themes of economic geography in terms of production and consumption. The traditional primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary divisions in economic geography are reviewed in terms of contemporary issues. The purpose of this course is to illustrate the importance of economic processes and tools to understand our environment.	2.03
geog-201	More and more of us are living in an urban world. This course is designed to examine problems and issues that arise with urban living; including psychological problems, the cost of housing, transportation issues, slums, suburban living, and the future direction of cities. While this course uses local examples, it also draws on examples from other cities in the world. This course approaches these topics through field trips into the city, slides, films, and field research. Urban studies leads to careers in urban planning, real estate, land management, architecture, and urban politics as well as stimulating general community awareness.	2.03
geog-202	The course is designed to engage students in the practical application of urban planning. Using principles from urban geography and urban planning, students will become acquainted with the development of an Official Community Plan, while working in partnership with planners from the local district planning office. The course involves field study work and attendance at district public meetings. This is an excellent course for those interested in urban and/or regional planning or those intending to continue in Geography.	2.17
geog-205	This course is a comparative geography of China and India. The course provides a current understanding of the geographies of these two major rising powers and focuses on their evolving physical, economic and cultural landscapes. Comparisons between the two are inevitable and it is intended that the course will provide the students with the analytical tools as well as the academic knowledge to have a better understanding of these two very different civilizations.	2.28
geog-206	BC's spectacular landscape has presented both challenges and bountiful resources to the peoples who have settled here. This course will acquaint students with both the physical and human geography of BC, and identify how our relationship with the land has shifted in response to changes in values, technology, and population. We will analyse the urgent issues that we face today in managing our natural resources and consider sustainable pathways to our future.	2.19
geog-208	This course focusses on the great diversity of people and landscapes within Canada and its regions. It looks at the dynamics of location and the processes responsible for where and why people, places, and economic activities are located. It also examines the processes related to the physical landscape: how landscapes are created, destroyed, and changed. It investigates the human impact on the landscape, and the reverse, the environment's impact on people, their settlement, and development.	2.28
geog-210	This course is an introduction to the wide range of natural hazards throughout the world. Earthquakes, hurricanes, landslides, volcanic eruptions, floods and heatwaves are examples of natural processes that can be hazardous for people, property and habitat. Using local and worldwide examples, we will examine the characteristics of natural hazards and their immediate and long-term impacts. Students will assess different methods for hazard prediction, warning and mitigation, including the relevance of Indigenous approaches to hazards management. The status of disaster planning and preparedness will be critically reviewed both globally and locally. Students will have an opportunity to collaborate with local disaster resilience planners on a community-based project and develop skills in hazard data analysis, hazard map interpretation, observational fieldwork and professional report writing.	2.19
geog-212	This course expands on the concepts first introduced in Geography 112. An important objective is to appreciate that landforms and, ultimately, landscapes result from the complex interaction of tectonic and gradational processes, the resistance of rocks and sediment, and time.  Throughout the course, students will be taught to apply both math and physics to understand landform development.  This course will involve both lectures and labs.	2.19
geog-214	By expanding on the concepts outlined in Geography 114, this course will provide an intermediate understanding of the processes at work in the atmosphere.  Broad topics to be covered are atmospheric energy, moisture, and motion.  An important objective is to provide students with an introduction to the science of weather forecasting.  As such Geography 214 is useful for students interested in transferring to an Atmospheric Science program.  This course involves both lectures and labs.	2.07
geog-221	Maps are an essential tool for conveying geographic information, and are also useful for other disciplines that rely extensively on maps and satellite images, such as environmental studies, forestry, geology, archaeology, history, and tourism. This course covers the basic principles of map and photo interpretation, surveying and satellite imaging, and analyses both human and physical landscapes.	2.24
geog-222	Climate change, the depletion of the world's resources, and the collapse of fisheries are but a few of the examples illustrating the global scale of our environmental problems. These global issues, however, have local causes and consequences. This course reviews the issues and identifies possible solutions, and involves field work research that engages the student in both quantitative and qualitative methodologies. The course will provide students with clear and concise explanations of writing and researching in the field of environmental geography.	2.12
geog-225	This introductory Geographic Information Systems (GIS) course studies the concepts, theories, and techniques of using a GIS to solve spatial problems in both the natural and social sciences. Understanding and the application of spatial data will be key to this course. Some topics that will be covered include: the components and types of spatial data, analyzing spatial data, spatial data models, creating maps and project design with emphasis on solving local spatial problems or questions. Students will gain hands-on experience with professional GIS applications.	2.07
geog-249	Students will gain an understanding of the physical, economic, historical, and cultural characteristics of a specific region, as they study the various conditions and issues faced by the local inhabitants.   The region studied will vary from year to year: students should check with the Geography department to find out details for upcoming courses.  This course may sometimes be offered as a field study, delivered on-site in a specific region. Past courses have been taught in Europe, China/Southeast Asia, and in Quebec.	2.07
geog-316	Climate change has emerged as one of the most important issues of the 21st century. Its rapid escalation from a theory among some climatologists and environmentalists to both a common household term and an international priority highlight the importance of understanding this process, its myriad implications on society and the environment and the urgency in working towards solutions. This course will cover topics such as: the causes of current and historical climate change; the human and environmental implications ranging from changing weather patterns to environmental refugees; climate change policy and greenhouse gas reduction strategies; and the diverse array of solutions to building more sustainable communities.	2.49
geog-325	The demands for better management of natural resources require management of spatial data and information. This course provides a technical understanding of the application of Geographical Information System (GIS) software to natural resource management in confronting environmental issues. Laboratory exercises provide practical use of GIS in solving natural resource management problems.	2.53
geog-330	This course seeks to appreciate the tremendous power of water, and the diversity of its roles in our lives. We will consider water as a significant force in the natural world - water produces our weather, and sculpts the landscape. On the other hand, we will study water as an essential resource. In this role, water has profoundly impacted the human landscape. Students will also learn how water extraction, water privatization, land conversion, climate change, and pollution all threaten Earth's water supply.	2.62
geog-333	We will investigate the historical evolution of imprisonment, of penal governance and critically examine the central role that punishment plays in society. This course examines the 'punitive' or 'carceral turn' which has brought about new ways of thinking about geography and the state, and has highlighted spaces of incarceration as a new terrain for exploration by geographers. Carceral geography, as a new subdiscipline of human geography, has developed to directly address this punitive turn, and has contributed to a wider 'carceral turn' in social sciences scholarships over recent years. This course also examines conditions of confinement and carcerality beyond prison walls.	2.65
geog-340	This course springs from the observation that the field of education is a contested space, and the course is intended to begin a conversation that engages the conceptions, practices, and policies central to the debates. We will grapple with the conflict surrounding these overarching problematics: What is education? What is educational practice? What is educational policy, how is it constructed, and within what social contexts? What characterizes the spaces, organizations, and institutions of education? The course will engage these concepts through case studies from higher education and non-traditional academic environments that will be analyzed employing elements of the geographic perspective.	2.48
geog-350	This course focuses on one of the most perplexing dilemmas in the development process: the phenomenon of massive and historically unprecedented movements of people from the rural countryside to the burgeoning cities of Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The course will address the processes of change and explores the rapid pace of this urbanization which has created a host of problems that weaken the role of cities as engines of economic growth. Moreover, the scope and scale of the urban process promises to loom even larger in the future as the pace of urbanisation accelerates.	2.41
geog-355	To obtain a greater understanding of cities, this course will embrace an interdisciplinary approach to real world urban ecological problems by bridging the gap between natural and social sciences and Indigenous ways of being. Students will learn how cities function as social-ecological systems and explore relevant theories and knowledge from natural science ecology, planning, geography, and history. The course will include intensive engagement, discussion, and debate with the subject matter as we tackle many crucial urban issues of our time: sustainability, biodiversity, air quality, brownfields, food procurement, acoustic ecology, and climate change.	2.46
geog-360	The transition to a sustainable operating system for humankind is not only possible, but currently underway. This course assesses the environmental challenges that our world faces and sets out possible courses for action, based on ideas, technology, and systems that are already being put in place around the globe.	2.44
geog-400	Demography is the study of human populations - size, composition, distribution, movement, and the processes through which populations can change. Human populations are intimately connected with their natural environment and this course will explore the complex and reciprocal relationship between them, how people respond to changing environments, and potential policy responses to these effects. Local and global scales will be considered, with particular focus on issues of social inequality and the impacts of climate change and ecological degradation.	2.74
geog-414	This course provides students with a scientific foundation of anthropogenic climate change and an introduction to climate models and frameworks in climate change vulnerability assessment. It focuses on fundamental physical processes that shape climate and on evidence for past and present climate change. During the course students study consequences of climate change, such as sea level change, variations in precipitation, vegetation, and storm systems, and the incidence of disease. The science behind mitigation and adaptation proposals is investigated.	2.82
geog-435	In this course, students will learn about the transformative role of energy within society and how communities can transition towards sustainable energy futures. Different types of renewable and non-renewable energy resources will be analysed in relation to their distinctive physical properties, social values, and environmental impacts. Students will explore diverse energy landscapes at a global to local scale and will critically analyse how these are geopolitically shaped to produce uneven social, economic, and environmental outcomes, including the impact and responses from Indigenous communities. Through exploration of innovation in energy technology, practice and communication, students will explore how sustainable, inclusive, and climate-resilient energy solutions can be designed and implemented.	2.63
geog-455	This course will examine concepts and practices of green infrastructure development as a key element of sustainable urban planning and climate change adaptation. Students will examine the potential of nature-based design of urban environments through analysis of innovation in water, energy, food, transport, and waste infrastructures from around the world. Geographical aspects of green network development will be emphasized, including attention to scales of implementation, distributional impacts of resource flows, sensitivity to culture and place, and community inclusivity in design, planning and implementation.	2.71
geog-490	Students will work with a Geography faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of Geography website for complete details on the application process.	2.54
glbs-100	This course is the first in a series of 4 seminars designed to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, and attitude necessary to effectively function as a volunteer - first as an individual, and then as a member of a group - in the Not-For-Profit sector. To this end, the series develops individual and group skills in the semester's prior to a volunteering experience with a local NGO.	2.02
glbs-101	This course is the second in a series of four seminars designed to prepare students for a career in the NGO sector. Students in GLBS 101 will apply the skills learned in GLBS 100 though a volunteer practicum with an NGO.	2.01
glbs-110	This course introduces students to the field of Global Studies by examining globalization and the rise of global systems, and their impact on nation-states, culture, human security, national and international economies and the environment.   Students will further explore how we are and aren't meeting the need for Global Public Goods, such as peace and security, the protection of universal human rights,  infectious disease prevention, economic security, and environmental protection (including climate change).	2.02
glbs-200	This course is third in a series of four seminars designed to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, and attitude necessary to effectively function as a volunteer - first as an individual, and then as a member of a group - in the non-governmental organization/not-for-profit sector. To this end, the series develops individual and group skills in the semester prior to a volunteering experience with a local NGO/NFP.	2.25
glbs-201	This course is the last in a series of 4 seminars designed to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, and attitude necessary to effectively function as a volunteer, first, as an individual, and then as a member of a group in the Not-For-Profit sector. To this end, the series develops individual and group skills in the semesters prior to a volunteering experience with a local NGO.	2.03
grdf-100	This course will provide training in the tools, techniques and procedures suitable to an entry-level position in the grip department of the mainstream and independent film production industries. The course of instruction will place a special emphasis on the new techniques developed for digital imaging for film and television.	2.03
hca-100	    This course introduces students to a holistic concept of health and the components of a health enhancing lifestyle.  Students will be invited to reflect on their own experience of health, recognizing challenges and resources that can impact lifestyle choices.  Students will be introduced to a model that can be applied in other courses to understand the multi-faceted aspects of health and healing.	1.99
hca-101	    This course provides students with the opportunity to develop a theoretical framework for practice.  Students will be introduced to the philosophical values and theoretical understandings that provide a foundation for competent practice as a HCA.  The course focuses on concepts of caring and person centered care; basic human needs and human development; family, culture and diversity as they relate to health and healing.  Students will also be introduced to a problem-solving model that will be critical to their practice.	1.85
hca-102	    This course focuses on the development of self-awareness, increased understanding of others and development of effective interpersonal communication skills that can be used in a variety of care giving contexts. Students will be encouraged to become more aware of the impact of their own communication choices and patterns. They will have opportunity to develop and use communication techniques that demonstrate personal awareness, respect and active listening skills.	1.83
hca-103	    This course introduces students to the normal structure and function of the human body and normal bodily changes associated with aging. Students will explore common challenges to health and healing in relation to each body system. Students will also be encouraged to explore person-centered practice as it relates to the common challenges to health and, in particular, to end-of-life care.	1.9
hca-104	    This course provides an introduction to the role of the HCA within the British Columbia health care system.  Students will be introduced to the healthcare team and the roles and functions of HCA within the team.  Students will also have opportunities to develop self-reflective skills required for competent practice and will be introduced to effective job-finding approaches.	2.1
hca-105	    This course builds on content from other courses to assist students to explore concepts and caregiving approaches that will allow them to work effectively with individuals experiencing cognitive and/or mental health challenges. The emphasis in this course is on supporting clients with dementia, recognizing responsive behaviours, and identifying person-centred intervention strategies.	1.92
hca-106	    This practical course offers students the opportunity to acquire personal care and assistance skills within the parameters of the HCA role.  The course is comprised of class and supervised laboratory experience which assist the student to integrate theory from other courses to develop care-giver skills that maintain and promote the comfort, safety and independence of clients in community and facility contexts.	1.82
hca-110	    This supervised practice experience provides students with an opportunity to apply knowledge and skills from all other courses in the program with individuals in a multi-level or complex care setting. A portion of this clinical experience will be devoted to working with individuals experiencing cognitive challenges. Opportunity will be provided for students to gain expertise and confidence with the role of the HCA within a continuing care facility.	1.96
hca-112	    This practice course provides students with an opportunity to apply knowledge and skills from all other courses with individuals and families in a community setting. Opportunity will be provided for students to become more familiar with the role of the HCA within a home support agency, assisted living facility, or a group home to gain abilities that will prepare graduates for employment in these settings. It is important that students understand the philosophy of community care settings and the importance of client choice and independence.	2.02
hist-100	An introduction to ancient world history through an exploration of the development of diverse cultural, religious, social, economic and political systems.  Various themes will be explored, such as the origin of cities, the rise and fall of empires, the relationship between religion and politics, and the relationship between citizen and state.  Several geographical areas will be discussed including Mesopotamia, Egypt, Indian Subcontinent, China, Greece and Rome.	1.84
hist-101	This course covers a colourful and creative period in European history from the 3rd century to the 15th century. Topics include the late Roman Empire and the rise of Christianity, monasticism and the church, feudal society and politics, the rise of towns, the crusades, the Black Death, and the art, culture and society of Renaissance Italy.	1.84
hist-102	A survey of early modern European history that addresses the political, social and cultural upheavals initiated by the Protestant Reformation including the Wars of Religion, Absolutism, the Scientific Revolution, the Enlightenment, the Old Regime and the French Revolution.	2.04
hist-108	This course examines the development of what became the United States from before colonization by Europeans to the end of the Civil War. Emphasis is placed on the evolution of American domestic politics, race relations, economic and social trends, and westward expansion.	1.99
hist-109	This course examines the development of the United States as a world power after the Civil War. Special emphasis is given to foreign policy, domestic politics, social movements, and race relations.	2.03
hist-110	This course examines political, social, cultural, and economic topics in the history of the lands now known as Canada through to Canadian Confederation. Important themes include Indigenous ways of life and the effects of European contact; imperial rivalries and transnational influences; treaty-making and the creation of new political entities; gender, race, and the evolution of colonial societies; and the emergence of regional and national cultures.	1.95
hist-111	This course examines political, social, cultural, and economic development of Canada from Canadian Confederation to the present day. Important themes include Indigenous peoples and the state; nationalism, federalism, and regionalism; prosperity and poverty; gender and race relations; immigration and multiculturalism; and, Canada on the global stage.	1.9
hist-112	This course will examine a variety of themes, events and circumstances related to Canadian military history, investigating our nation's military experience from pre-colonial times to the late 20th century. This course will also meaningfully explore how our military history has, and continues to, profoundly shape and influence virtually all facets of Canadian society.	1.95
hist-117	Pirates have been the scourge of the seas since maritime trade and commerce began. From its classical origins to the modern day, piracy has had significant economic, political, social, and cultural effects. The motives for becoming a pirate and the nature of that reality will be examined by exploring themes of race, class, gender and religion, as well as the democratic ideals of fraternity, equality, and liberty.	2.02
hist-130	This course will explore various themes and events in world history during the first half of the twentieth century, including imperialism, colonialism, nationalism, the First World War, interwar despotic states, the Second World War and the early Cold War.	2.0
hist-131	This course will explore various themes and events in world history during the second half of the twentieth century including the global impact of the Cold War between the Soviet Union and the United States, the transformation of Asia, the processes of decolonization, the collapse of the Soviet Union, and the emergence of the Middle East as a major geopolitical influence.	2.1
hist-150	This course examines the complexities of key current events through a lens of historical inquiry. Specific topics may vary year to year, but it may include, for example, the historical causes of recent military conflicts, the allure of authoritarianism in Western democracies, or the struggles of various groups for political, economic, and social rights and opportunities.	1.86
hist-205	From the first contact between First Nations and Europeans in the 18th century to the present, this course analyses the main issues that have affected British Columbians. It also examines some aspects of the development of the North Shore.	2.11
hist-206	This course introduces learners to a broad outline of environmental history in these lands now known as Canada from time immemorial to the early twenty-first century. Important themes include Indigenous perspectives and relationships with the land; settler colonial impacts on the environment; the transformative effects of industrialization, urbanization, and mass migration; conservationism and environmentalism; and questions of sustainability with the push for truth and reconciliation.	2.17
hist-208	This Canadian history course examines the major events and themes that have shaped the Canadian-American relationship. From the American Revolution, the war that ultimately created both countries, to recent years, we analyze the influence that the United States has had on Canada.	2.01
hist-209	This course will introduce students to the history of Indigenous Peoples in Canada from time immemorial to the early 21st century. The course emphasizes the interactions between First Peoples and newcomers within the context of colonialism, the establishment and expansion of the Canadian nation-state, and the movements for reconciliation and revitalization of the late 20th century.	2.14
hist-222	This course will explore the history of the First World War, from the origins of the global conflict to the Paris Peace Conference of 1919. Many military, diplomatic, political, technological, economic and social aspects of the war will be examined.	2.25
hist-225	This course explores the events and circumstances of the Second World War. The military, diplomatic, political, economic, cultural and social aspects of this global conflict will be examined and the themes of race and gender will be considered.	2.11
hist-240	This course will examine themes and events in the history of Nazi Germany from its inception to its fall. Emphasis will be placed upon various aspects of Nazi Germany's political, social, military and economic policies and actions.	2.2
hist-248	This course will examine the history of revolutionary ideas in nineteenth century Europe. It will explore some of the major revolutionary theories (such as socialism, conservatism, Darwinism, and feminism) and their application to events, such as the Napoleonic era, industrialization, the development of the modern state, and the 1848 Revolutions. As well, the impact on society, colonization, and the international tensions that loomed over the end of the century will be explored through the lens of the various revolutionary ideas.	2.14
hist-250	This course will examine a variety of themes in Greek and Roman history from the 8th century B.C.E. to the 4th century C.E. This course will address the complex political, social, intellectual, and cultural settings of the ancient world. Special emphasis will be given to classical Athens and Sparta, Alexander the Great, the Hellenistic world, the Roman Republic, and the Roman emperors.	2.27
hist-260	This course will explore the nature and significance of the Soviet experiment from its inception to its fall. Emphasis will be placed upon the various personalities and events that shaped the formation, transformation and ultimate collapse of the Soviet Union.	2.1
hist-305	This course will explore U.S. History from 1945 to 2001.  This course will focus on the development of America as a world power after WWII with special emphasis on U.S. foreign policy, the Cold War, domestic policies, the Civil Rights movement, and the implications of the fall of the Soviet Union.	2.66
hist-320	This course will explore the relationship between revolution and society during specific historical periods and circumstances. Main themes will include the role of the state in revolutions, views and attitudes towards revolutions, the ideas and thoughts behind revolutions, as well as the outcome of these revolutions on the wider world.	2.49
hist-325	This course will examine a variety of historical mysteries and conspiracies. We will explore the various aspects of these mysteries and conspiracies and place them in their proper historical context. Main themes will include the views, attitudes, and outcomes, both perceived and actual, of these diverse historical events and circumstances.	2.48
hist-326	This course will examine a variety of historical disasters and catastrophes, from ancient times to the current era. This course will explore the various aspects of these disasters and catastrophes and place them in their proper historical context. Main themes will include the views, attitudes, and outcomes, both perceived and actual, of these diverse historical events and circumstances.	2.56
hist-333	This course will explore the history of slavery and antislavery from the mid sixteenth century to the late nineteenth century. The course focuses on topics such as the Atlantic slave trade, the rise of slave trading empires in Africa, and the impacts of slavery and antislavery in the Atlantic World. Core themes of the course include freedom and bondage, race, class, gender, sexuality, religion, imperialism, agency and resistance, and identity and subjectivity.	2.44
hist-366	Spanning the globe and ranging in time period from antiquity to present day, this course surveys how epidemics and plagues changed society by examining social, religious, political and economic reactions and adaptations to various diseases.	2.47
hist-370	This class explores intersections between sex, gender, and drugs from an historical perspective, placing them in their proper historical context. While exact subject matter will vary from semester to semester, including the courses geographical and temporal focus, topics may include: social, political, or cultural perspectives on sex and drugs; historical geographies of sex and drugs; questions of contraception; and the portrayal of sex in drugs within various historical media.	2.42
hist-380	This course will examine the development of warfare and its relationship, role and impact on society between 1850 and the nuclear age. Main themes will include: the role of war in contemporary societies, views and attitudes towards war, the technology and science of war, as well as the tactics and strategy of war.	2.63
hist-390	This course will examine historically how violence has shaped various societies' political, social, economic, religious and intellectual goals and beliefs.	2.41
hist-410	This class explores historical ideas of inclusion and exclusion in the lands that now comprise Canada. While it investigates statutory categories of citizenship, it also moves beyond those categories to better understand the ways social, political, and cultural belonging have been defined throughout Canada's history. Important themes include lndigeneity; race and enslavement; ethnicity and religion; social class and status; gender and feminism; and legal codes and overlapping legal customs.	2.99
hist-414	From 1485 to 1689, England transformed itself from a minor feudal state to the first modern European society, and emerged as the wealthiest and most powerful nation in the world. This course explores epidemics and famines, invasions, two civil wars, violent religious reformations, and confrontations with two of the most powerful monarchs in Europe, Louis XIV of France and Philip II of Spain.	2.52
hist-490	Students will work with a History faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of History website for complete details on the application process.	2.68
hkin-116	This course is designed to help students apply the basic principles of sport skill analysis applicable to various individual sports and activities. Students will demonstrate practical and theoretical knowledge of skills, techniques, and strategies, which contribute to effective performance in outdoor pursuits such as a rope course, kayaking, mountain biking and indoor climbing/bouldering. Additionally, students will be introduced to the theory of teaching outdoor pursuit activities for the grade school physical education students.	1.89
hkin-117	This course is designed to help students apply and demonstrate practical and theoretical knowledge of skills and techniques which contribute to effective performance in fundamental movement skills, traditional and contemporary strength training, and aerobic dance and aquatic fitness.	1.99
hkin-212	This course builds on principles introduced in HKIN 112. Starting with a review of the origins and safety of the food supply, it will progress to discuss the role that nutrition has in the prevention and treatment of common degenerative diseases. Special emphasis will be directed towards preventing these chronic conditions and establishing lifelong healthy eating patterns.	2.05
hkin-216	This course will explore the history of soccer and basketball, the techniques and tactics involved in both games and introduce various teaching and coaching methods to the students. Special emphasis will be given to more contemporary teaching models and provide students with opportunities to practice teaching in peer, small and larger group settings.	2.22
hkin-217	This course will explore the history of volleyball and badminton, the techniques and tactics involved in both games and introduce various teaching and coaching methods to the students. Special emphasis will be given to more contemporary teaching models and provide students with opportunities to practice teaching in peer, small and larger group settings.	2.12
idf-103	This course familiarizes students with the process involved in the design, planning and construction of motion picture sets.	2.01
idf-109	The first major supervised project includes development and prep. Through lectures, workshops and project work, students will learn and apply expanded creative and artistic concepts of a narrative story structure and style while planning their production work.	1.8
idf-110	The first major project includes development, pre-production, production and post-production. Mentorship and supervision focus on professionalism and technical competency.	1.99
idf-119	Students will learn about First Nations leadership philosophies, protocols and practices from which communal and team spirit is derived from. They will learn to adapt those traditional practices and develop First Nations crew protocols, team-building strategies and problem-solving and conflict resolution techniques that satisfy contemporary industry standards as well as community based industry structures. Students will cultivate networking strategies.	2.08
idf-120	Students will be introduced to the history and development of Indigenous creative and artistic expression.  An overview of the development of Indigenous media, particularly television and film and its potential as an integral part of creative Indigenous traditions, will be explored through lectures, workshops and hands-on project work.	1.9
idf-126	Students will learn storytelling techniques and devices that apply to both traditional Indigenous storytelling and the current process of developing dramatic scripts/screenplays formatted for film and television.  The role of the writer in dramatic production, and specifically in Indigenous production, will be described and simulated.	2.03
idf-127	Students will learn basic skills and theory of factual storytelling structures and devices.  The importance of research, the role of the producer, writer and editor in production process, and specifically in Indigenous fact-based production, will be described and applied.	1.81
idf-128	Students will learn the processes involved in planning, budgeting and managing a production, with specific reference to the Indigenous production sector.	2.0
idf-136	Students will obtain basic knowledge client relations and hands-on, practical experience of the creative and practical elements of production and post-production through a series of lectures, workshops and project work. Applying the skills and knowledge gained throughout the program, students will work in teams in a variety of roles to complete 30 to 60 second public service announcement.	2.01
idf-137	Students will learn basic knowledge and acquire hands-on, practical experience of the creative and practical elements of production and post-production through a series of lectures, workshops and project work.  Applying the skills and knowledge gained throughout the program, students will work in teams in a variety of roles to complete a short fact based production.	2.03
idf-139	Students will learn technical elements of production while working hands-on to develop a corporate video. Students will learn camera, light composition, basic sound recording, graphic design and editing through a combination of lectures, workshops and hands-on experience.	1.91
idf-142	Students will be introduced to the foundation processes, paperwork, and procedures involved in filmmaking at all levels. From developing a story through to production models, it lays the groundwork upon which all filmmaking is built, including core elements of the sequence of events on set: block, light, rehearse, and shoot, while describing, in detail, the various and specific functions of the production team and giving students multiple opportunities to apply their learning on set.	1.92
idf-207	Students will learn the importance of creating a seamlessly crafted film by developing skills in the technical arts of filmmaking using the paradigm of Classical Narrative Cinema (the cinematic fundamentals of the on-screen spatial relationships). Theoretical and practical aspects of cinematography, sound and film production are explored and applied in this team-taught interdisciplinary course.	2.05
idf-208	Students will explore the function and practices of line producers and production managers in the entertainment industry, including core production workflows relating to human resources, production resources, unions and guilds, and accounting, as well as the preparation of industry standard production budget and evaluating the production requirements of professional projects.	2.07
idf-209	Students will build upon and reinforce the foundation of editing skills and knowledge by identifying and explaining various picture and sound editing aesthetics, evaluating visual and audio elements of a project, as well as demonstrating various editing styles.	2.04
idf-213	Students will explore the implementation of visual design and production design on film/tv projects, including student film projects. Students will learn advanced creative application skills of cultural, traditional and practical elements of production planning.	2.21
idf-217	This course is designed to build upon the foundation of sound editing and sound recording knowledge acquired in the first year of the program. The purpose of this course is to teach the foundation of the principles of sound aesthetics, creating sound, and applying them to the sound edit of a film or video.	2.26
idf-233	The student will learn Indigenous storytelling techniques. The students will gain experience in the role of the writer in an actual dramatic production, and specifically in Indigenous production. Students will learn to develop the beats, acts, sequences and write a short screenplay.	2.24
idf-235	The course provides a cultural and artistic framework for world Indigenous filmmaking. Through lectures, screenings, discussion, project work, and guest speakers the students will learn how to identify varying styles, approaches and delivery of story from indigenous groups from around the world.	2.28
idf-239	The students will learn advanced technical skills and practical experience of production through a mixture of lectures, workshops and hands-on projects.  More complex and sophisticated production and post-production skills and tools will be introduced and developed, including advanced camera work, lighting design, sound design, and advanced post-production processes and techniques.	2.18
idf-240	The student will learn to understand story themes, story points, character development, foreshadowing, intent, plot points, climax, resolution, recurring motifs, scene transitions, tension points, scene analysis and communicating with actors.	2.03
idf-243	Students will learn advanced creative application skills of cultural, traditional and practical elements of production planning. Students will complete the planning stage for two productions that will be produced in the spring term.	2.29
idf-250	Students will produce two short filmed productions where they will work in at least two production skills areas and demonstrate working knowledge of key crafts contributing to entry level professional dramatic film, television and media production.	2.06
idst-110	This is a seminar style course designed to prepare students for success within the ARLS program, broaden perspectives, create contacts, and enhance skills to gain employment upon completing the program. Through a seminar approach, you explore topics such as heritage and values associated with the land, concepts of value of the land and resources, and different employment and careers opportunities in land and resource management and stewardship.	1.89
idst-120	This course explores concepts of stewardship and sustainability from contemporary and traditional perspectives. The over-riding theme of this course is to explore what it means to be a steward of the land and how this relates to conservation and sustainability from different world-views. Historical precedents and legal cases that define aboriginal rights and title will also be explored in the context of land stewardship.	1.9
ibus-255	The course increases participants' awareness of and sensitivity toward their own and other cultures in cross-cultural settings as they relate to business management and relationships. It examines cultural values and value orientations to establish links between theoretical knowledge and applied skills in a multicultural, multiethnic business environment.	2.22
ibus-256	This course focuses on understanding key supply chain concepts, processes, and performance and explores the management of sustainable supply chains, a key competitive advantage in international business. Topics include important supply chain terminologies, primary trade-offs in making supply chain decisions, and basic tools for effective and sustainable supply chain management.	2.14
ibus-321	The course introduces basic frameworks that managers can apply to make international business decisions, to analyze international business information, and to design global competitive strategies. Course will cover the international environment and its impact on business behaviour: cultural, social, economic and institutional factors; major functions of international business; export and import trade, foreign investment, production and marketing operations; theoretical principles, government policies, business practices.	2.47
ibus-340	This course examines the effect of international business trade relationships within the private and public laws of foreign jurisdictions.  Topics range from International trade conventions and agreements, the legal processes of importing and exporting, and the challenge of dealing with conflicting domestic laws between countries.	2.53
ibus-341	This course will examine the competitive advantages to be gained from an effective and efficient supply chain in an era of ever-increasing problems associated with global logistics. Students will understand the core strategies and procedures that will help businesses manage these problems. Best and worst case scenarios will be discussed in class. The latter part of the course will touch upon sustainable supply chain practices and the student's final project will enable them to apply their new and existing business and supply chain knowledge to a real life business situation.	2.45
ibus-356	Logistics and transportation are critical links in today's supply chain. Building on the fundamentals addressed in IBUS 256, this course explores the concepts of physical distribution and logistics, as well as addressing the specific areas of contracts, loss and damage, dangerous goods, marine insurance, Canada Customs, international trade, and the transportation regulatory environment.	2.58
ibus-357	This course covers marketing theory and methods as they apply to world markets. Among the topics discussed is the importance of linking international marketing with the overall strategy of the business while examining the impact of cultural, political and legal issues and the economic differences in global strategies. Emphasis is placed on market entry strategies and developing the marketing plan appropriate to various international global environments.	2.68
ibus-358	In today's competitive global marketplace, product and service quality are pivotal for future success. In this course, you will learn about a Quality Management System (QMS), conducting an internal quality audit, and the quality tools necessary to implement efficient operations leading to improved customer satisfaction in small, medium, and large corporations.	2.5
ibus-368	Entrepreneurs who aspire to doing business internationally will naturally face business environments different from their home country. To overcome this challenge, these entrepreneurs need to explore and apply a variety of international business-related topics such as trade rules and theories, financing, export and import processes, risk analysis, risk management, logistics, and cultural diversity. The course combines a blend of lectures, assignments, guest speakers, teamwork, research, case studies, and discussion of events affecting international business. Students will expand their knowledge and terminology of international business and the process that entrepreneurs go through to prepare an international business plan.	2.57
ibus-405	This course provides students with an opportunity to apply concepts and skills learned during their previous International Business studies.  Students will complete a team-based project to solve a real world problem in a client organization. The course format is a combination of classroom-based lectures, guest speakers, and instructor-directed student team group work (three to four students each), in combination with online interaction outside the classroom via a course website.	2.7
ibus-434	Students will apply their knowledge and skills in cross-cultural leadership and management, cross-cultural ethics, and conflict and negotiation to a variety of assignments including a team project and present their findings to a panel of professionals.	2.71
ibus-440	This course will further students' knowledge of international business practices in a world context paying attention to operations, trade, investments, international financial markets, new financial instruments, etc.  Through case studies, students will analyze current international business environments in specific industries and their success and challenges across the globe. Students will learn business practices of small and medium enterprises and multinationals in developed, emerging, and developing countries and common markets.	2.73
ixd-101	This course introduces students to the tools, roles and responsibilities of an interaction designer. Students gain technical knowledge of the setup and maintenance of software and workflows used by the interactive design industry and begin to work with image-making software for static and dynamic media. This course examines the fair use of media and data from both a producer and end-user perspective.	1.84
ixd-102	In this course, students will learn the basics of user experience (UX) and UX research and put these to use exploring a variety of projects. Using insight tools such as personas and wireframes, students will learn a collaborative approach to working in this dynamic field.	1.95
ixd-103	This course introduces students to the software used to design and prototype digital interfaces and experiences. Students will study methods of visual organization and appropriate use of colour. This course also examines the work produced by industry professionals and their roles/responsibilities. Students practice appropriate and effective group critique techniques.	1.85
ixd-104	This course provides students with a thorough understanding of digital typography. Students will study the principles of accessible typography for digital mediums. The evolution of type from the mid-1400s to the present day is discussed, as students examine how the technology of each era influences letterforms. Instruction in design-related software supports the course.	1.8
ixd-105	Design thinking is a key component of effective and impactful design. This course examines design thinking and includes concepts of inclusive, respectful and responsible design. Students will apply further user experience research to define human-centred design goals and puts collaboration and creative skills into practice. Students will also review the broader implications of design, including cultural frameworks, Indigenous knowledge and the natural environment.	2.09
ixd-106	This course builds on concepts developed in IXD 102. The course will apply the user experience strategy lifecycle. Students will explore human-factor considerations in user experience as well as creating new information architectures through research and testing. Students will also learn how e-commerce principles are applied in user experience. Students will examine stakeholder and project management best practices that will help students prepare for professional practice.	1.96
ixd-107	This course focuses on developing advanced skills in the software used to design and prototype digital interfaces and experiences. Students will study critical patterns used in interface design combined with digital accessibility best practices. This course examines design solutions that promote environmental, cultural, social, and economic responsibility.	1.81
ixd-108	This course introduces students to HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Students will gain a clear and concise picture of the building blocks of the web, as well as server requirements. The history of the Internet will be also studied. Principles and techniques of search engine optimization (SEO) will be examined. Students will apply their learning through the development of WordPress websites.	1.85
ixd-201	This course introduces students to the strategic and creative process of branding. Students will examine key components and principles of design systems for digital products. Students will also explore methods of co-creation, as they complete a work-integrated learning experience.	2.19
ixd-202	In this course, students will look beyond the most common screen-based devices (laptop and mobile) and apply user experience (UX) principles to future and emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, voice-activated devices and augmented reality. Students will assess the impact of game theory and apply design thinking to new creative technologies. They will also complete visits to local studios, which will provide students with a solid understanding of the professional landscape of new technologies.	2.01
ixd-203	This course introduces students to motion design for screen-based interaction elements and digital storytelling. Students will examine the user experience principles of motion design as well as the social impact of digital storytelling. Students gain technical knowledge in image-making software and coding for dynamic media.	2.11
ixd-204	Students are introduced to time-management techniques, project management styles and contract principles for designers. Ethics in design will be covered to give students an opportunity to define an ethical design practice that is inclusive, responsible and embraces diversity. Students will develop business communication skills, self-promotion techniques and complete a mentorship project to gain exposure to professional practice. This course provides students a pathway after graduation and supports career success.	2.07
ixd-205	Students will demonstrate an iterative design process through the completion of a self-directed capstone project. Students will apply human-centred design thinking, as a method of problem solving to construct a sustainable design solution that embodies global consciousness, human responsibility, and/or our commitment to the rights of Indigenous peoples and furthering reconciliation. Students are mentored by peers, faculty and interaction design professionals.	2.28
ixd-206	In this course, students will develop a digital portfolio, rsum and skills to secure industry employment. This work-integrated learning course provides an opportunity for students to apply classroom theory to employment practices. Students will gain interaction design work related experience through one or a combination of experiences including practicum placement, professional development (PD), or completion of special projects. Students are responsible for securing their own practicum placement, prior to the first week of the course, with the support, consultation, and approval of the assigned faculty supervisor/Instructor.	2.12
ints-110	This course brings together students, educators, and community organizations to collaborate on generating solutions to regional problems. Students will learn in a region-integrated setting, drawing on scholarship from the Arts and Sciences, while incorporating Indigenous ways of knowing, to address problems in areas such as the social-ecological impacts of climate change, sustainable resources management, and social justice. Students will develop as researchers, consultants, innovators and leaders, furthering their capabilities as change-makers within the communities located on the traditional First Nations territories of our region.	2.03
ints-210	This team-taught course introduces students to the benefits and challenges of interdisciplinary studies. Applying methods and insights from fields across the arts, sciences, and related fields of study, students will work creatively and collaboratively to address complex contemporary problems that require thinking from two or more academic disciplines. The course will include a Work-Integrated Learning component.	2.26
ints-310	This team-taught course introduces students to the various stages of the research process and provides them with an understanding of the different methods used to conduct research commonly used in the humanities, social sciences, and related fields of study. Students will be exposed to different methods - computational, ethnographic, archival and others - and will begin to apply methods in a practical, ethical manner.	2.63
ints-335	Interdisciplinary teams of researchers are working together to solve the twenty-first century's grand challenges. Whether tackling declining biodiversity or building sustainable cities, the solutions require cooperation between universities and the wider community. This project-based course will integrate local community partners to explore and propose solutions to regional issues, such as affordable housing, green transportation, and resource development. In the process students will learn about workplace opportunities where their skills and perspective will be valued.	2.7
ints-345	This course invites students to engage in the process of advancing reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples in Canada. Engaging with the work and teachings of Elders, Indigenous scholars, cultural experts, and Indigenous communities, students will examine the process of reconciliation within the context of past and ongoing processes of settler colonialism, including residential schools and genocide committed against Indigenous people.	2.46
ints-390	Students will work with an instructor to guide them in a topic-based analytical study, creative project, or work-integrated learning experience approved by the student's tutorial advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Interdisciplinary Studies degree coordinator.	2.68
ints-391	Students will work with an instructor to guide them in a topic-based analytical study, creative project, or work-integrated learning experience approved by the student's tutorial advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Interdisciplinary Studies degree coordinator.	2.61
ints-392	Students will work with an instructor to guide them in a topic-based analytical study, creative project, or work-integrated learning experience approved by the student's tutorial advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Interdisciplinary Studies degree coordinator.	2.58
ints-490	Students will work with an instructor to guide them in a topic-based analytical or creative Capstone approved by the student's advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Interdisciplinary Studies degree coordinator.	2.89
ints-495	Students will work with an instructor to guide them through an extended topic-based analytical or creative Capstone project approved by the student's advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Interdisciplinary Studies degree coordinator.	2.98
ints-496	Students will work with an instructor to guide them through the second part of an extended topic-based analytical or creative Capstone project approved by the student's advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. Registration is by permission of the instructor and the Interdisciplinary Studies degree coordinator.	2.62
inma-500	This course explores the challenges faced by international firms in building and sustaining competitive advantage within a complex, uncertain and changing global business environment. Students examine how firms develop a range of strategic approaches to international business challenges, balancing a consideration of internal organizational influences and stakeholder pressures against an evaluation of the impact of competitive rivalry and environmental forces. Students will critically assess a range of strategic options available to managers in specific case situations.	3.43
inma-505	This course enables students to critically explore the management of people from an international perspective, analysing the complex HRM and employment relations policies, strategies and practices that organizations pursue in the context of globalisation. The course explores the functional and strategic requirements of HRM in the international organization and how international issues of workforce mobility and other economic, technological, political, cultural, environmental and social pressures impact on HRM and employment relations.	3.03
inma-510	The course investigates a contemporary management attributes and skills. Models and competence frameworks for management are analyzed and applied. Practical self-development and self-diagnostic tools, including an understanding of continuing professional development are utilized. Students assess their current situation, identify barriers to success and develop a clear action plan. Students increase their understanding of the changing context of management and develop a range of intellectual, social and practical skills required to undertake managerial work.	2.85
inma-515	This course explores key issues of cultural diversity and the process of formulating cross-border marketing strategy. Students are introduced to key concepts, academic theories and models of cultural diversity and managing cross-border marketing, including theories of consumer behaviour and marketing communications. Students analyse the process of cross-border marketing, and critically evaluate strategies and processes adopted by leading global players. Students also explore managing marketing alliances across borders.	2.89
inma-525	This course introduces the complex patterns, processes and concepts related to measurement and international economic theories, the role of global institutions and narratives used to explain the global economy.	3.23
inma-530	The integrated research project is a substantial and transformative piece of investigative work undertaken by students which develops the skills needed to integrate their learning from the range of disciplines covered in the program's taught courses and apply it to a complex international business problem. Students develop and apply independent research skills in the location, evaluation, presentation and analysis of data in coming to an understanding of the problem they are investigating. It is expected that the final research project is a contribution to the existing literature.	3.24
inma-535	The dissertation is an independent and original piece of work incorporating research, study and evaluation. It is the culmination of a successful graduate programme, demonstrating the student's ability to work independently. The dissertation may focus on any aspect of the International Management graduate diploma programme. Each student will be allocated a supervisor. In all cases, the research must demonstrate critical and independent thought.	3.37
inma-540	This course is designed to allow students to critically evaluate the application of financial management techniques and theory to international business. Students will have the opportunity to assess and apply appropriate strategies for shareholder value creation within an international context.	3.49
inma-545	This course is designed to develop postgraduate level skills of independent research, analysis, evaluation, writing and presentation; apply those skills in the undertaking of a piece of independent research and the production of a major postgraduate research project.	3.1
ivpa-300	This course is team taught by faculty from a variety of visual and performing arts backgrounds and is open to students from all disciplines for the purposes of collaborative exploration and innovation. Students will gain exposure to diverse perspectives and will practice a selection of fundamental visual and performing arts techniques that provide the material approaches, structures and language for the course work. The goal is to expand the students' capabilities by extending the current approaches in their own field, revealing relationships between previously unconnected materials and concepts and applying different or new approaches to their creative processes.	2.44
japn-100	This course offers a comprehensive introduction to modern Japanese through the study of vocabulary, grammar and culture. The beginning of the course will be devoted to learning the Japanese writing systems (hiragana and katakana). 40 to 50 kanji (Chinese characters) will also be taught. Students will develop basic language skills in a socio-culturally functional way.	2.01
japn-101	This course is a continuation of JAPN 100 and must be taken in order to complete First Year level of Japanese. Students will learn more about the structure of modern Japanese and further develop their language skills in a socio-culturally functional way.	1.81
japn-108	This course examines Japanese culture through Japanese language, art, and variety of social practices and its global influences. Japanese social concepts will be explored through Japanese culture in a variety of genres including animation, cuisine, and more. Students will learn traditional Japanese cultural practices reflected in contemporary Japanese society.	2.07
japn-200	This course provides students with further socio-cultural knowledge at an intermediate level of Japanese. Emphasis will be placed on developing a comprehensive knowledge of modern Japanese through authentic materials and will include reading and writing skill development.	2.24
japn-201	This course continues to develop higher skills at the intermediate level and provides the students with a solid foundation on which to base further study of the language and to develop socio-culturally functional competence.	2.18
japn-315	This course is a continuation of JAPN 201.  Using course texts, as well as modified and actual Japanese texts from media and other sources, students will work on their language skills within real-world professional and business contexts.	2.66
ensj-105	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's Jazz Choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.02
ensj-116	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	1.86
ensj-117	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.06
ensj-120	Performance in guitar/bass ensemble for the development of sight reading and phrasing skills. Emphasis will be on single-note reading in all areas of the neck. Credit from this course is not applicable to the degree program.	2.07
ensj-122	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players.  The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.82
ensj-123	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players.  The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.83
ensj-135	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	1.89
ensj-136	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.08
ensj-140	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	1.83
ensj-141	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.96
ensj-142	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.83
ensj-143	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.04
ensj-144	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.0
ensj-145	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.0
ensj-146	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.88
ensj-147	This course focuses on performance in a percussion ensemble.  Students will learn to use pitches and non-pitched percussion instruments and equipment through practical experience with an emphasis on jazz repertoire and sensibility. The ensemble may read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.89
ensj-148	This course focuses on performance in a percussion ensemble.  Students will learn to use pitches and non-pitched percussion instruments and equipment through practical experience with an emphasis on jazz repertoire and sensibility. The ensemble may read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.83
ensj-155	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	1.84
ensj-161	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.01
ensj-162	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.96
ensj-163	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.84
ensj-164	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.86
ensj-165	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments.  The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, students works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire.  Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	1.8
ensj-166	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments.  The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, students works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire.  Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.0
ensj-170	Performance in guitar/bass ensemble for the development of sight reading and phrasing skills. Emphasis will be on single-note reading in all areas of the neck. Credit from this course is not applicable to the Degree program.	1.94
ensj-171	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble of guitars and basses with rhythm section. The group will perform basic arrangements and adaptations of music from the jazz tradition with an emphasis on learning sight reading and idiomatic ensemble performance techniques. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester.	1.89
ensj-172	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble of guitars and basses with rhythm section. The group will perform basic arrangements and adaptations of music from the jazz tradition with an emphasis on learning sight reading and idiomatic ensemble performance techniques. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester.	1.87
ensj-185	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	1.93
ensj-186	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	1.96
ensj-190	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	1.81
ensj-205	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.28
ensj-216	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.14
ensj-217	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.26
ensj-220	A performance ensemble comprised primarily of bassists and guitarists. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.14
ensj-222	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players.  The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.08
ensj-223	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players.  The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.15
ensj-235	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	2.14
ensj-236	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.23
ensj-240	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.09
ensj-241	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.02
ensj-242	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.25
ensj-243	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.13
ensj-244	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.06
ensj-245	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.04
ensj-246	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.19
ensj-247	This course focuses on performance in a percussion ensemble.  Students will learn to use pitches and non-pitched percussion instruments and equipment through practical experience with an emphasis on jazz repertoire and sensibility. The ensemble may read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.15
ensj-248	This course focuses on performance in a percussion ensemble.  Students will learn to use pitches and non-pitched percussion instruments and equipment through practical experience with an emphasis on jazz repertoire and sensibility. The ensemble may read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.17
ensj-255	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.14
ensj-256	This course includes performance of various styles of a cappella and accompanied vocal ensemble repertoire with an emphasis on jazz literature and small group performance, i.e. one singer per part.	2.21
ensj-261	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.08
ensj-262	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.02
ensj-263	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.05
ensj-264	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.08
ensj-265	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments.  The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, students works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire.  Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.12
ensj-266	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments.  The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, students works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire.  Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.29
ensj-270	A performance ensemble comprised primarily of bassists and guitarists. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.01
ensj-271	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble of guitars and basses with rhythm section. The group will perform a variety of arrangements and adaptations of music from the jazz tradition with an emphasis on sight reading, rhythmic coordination, and idiomatic performance practice. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester.	2.05
ensj-272	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble of guitars and basses with rhythm section. The group will perform a variety of arrangements and adaptations of music from the jazz tradition with an emphasis on sight reading, rhythmic coordination, and idiomatic performance practice. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester.	2.0
ensj-285	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	2.29
ensj-286	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.27
ensj-290	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.3
ensj-305	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.57
ensj-306	This course includes performance of various styles of a cappella and accompanied vocal ensemble repertoire with an emphasis on jazz literature and small group performance, i.e. one singer per part.	2.64
ensj-316	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.51
ensj-317	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.52
ensj-320	A performance ensemble comprised primarily of bassists and guitarists. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.57
ensj-322	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players.  The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, Latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.66
ensj-323	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players.  The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, Latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.67
ensj-335	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	2.7
ensj-336	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.44
ensj-340	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.66
ensj-341	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.67
ensj-342	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.5
ensj-343	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.49
ensj-344	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.58
ensj-345	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.61
ensj-346	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.47
ensj-347	This course focuses on performance in a percussion ensemble. Students will learn to use pitched and non-pitched percussion instruments and equipment through practical experience with an emphasis on jazz repertoire and sensibility. The ensemble may read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.42
ensj-348	This course focuses on performance in a percussion ensemble. Students will learn to use pitched and non-pitched percussion instruments and equipment through practical experience with an emphasis on jazz repertoire and sensibility. The ensemble may read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.58
ensj-355	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.42
ensj-356	This course includes performance of various styles of a cappella and accompanied vocal ensemble repertoire with an emphasis on jazz literature and small group performance, i.e. one singer per part.	2.46
ensj-361	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.44
ensj-362	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.65
ensj-363	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.47
ensj-364	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.63
ensj-365	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments.  The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, student works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire.  Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.4
ensj-366	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments.  The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, student works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire. Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.47
ensj-370	A performance ensemble comprised primarily of bassists and guitarists. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.56
ensj-371	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble of guitars and basses with rhythm section. The group will perform a variety of arrangements and adaptations of music from the jazz tradition with an emphasis on sight reading, rhythmic coordination, and idiomatic performance practice. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester.	2.66
ensj-372	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble of guitars and basses with rhythm section. The group will perform a variety of arrangements and adaptations of music from the jazz tradition with an emphasis on sight reading, rhythmic coordination, and idiomatic performance practice. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester.	2.61
ensj-385	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	2.57
ensj-386	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.62
ensj-390	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.44
ensj-405	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.65
ensj-406	This course includes performance of various styles of a cappella and accompanied vocal ensemble repertoire with an emphasis on jazz literature and small group performance, i.e. one singer per part.	2.63
ensj-416	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.8
ensj-417	Rehearsal and performance with our African Drumming and Dance Ensemble. The aim of the group is to cultivate ensemble performance skills in areas such as rhythm, synchronization of movement and sound, memorization, aural learning, and expression. Through active participation in the oral tradition of learning, participants will also develop an understanding of the rich cultural context and traditions that give rise to characteristic forms of West African music and dances. All students will sing, dance, and play various percussion instruments.	2.66
ensj-422	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players. The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, Latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.82
ensj-423	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble including rhythm section and multiple keyboard, guitar, and percussion players. The repertoire for this ensemble will come from diverse genres where rhythm is the primary focus including jazz, Latin, African music, funk, rock, fusion, 'minimalist' music, and related styles. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.55
ensj-435	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	2.66
ensj-436	Students rehearse in small  like-instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.51
ensj-440	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.78
ensj-441	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.93
ensj-442	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.65
ensj-443	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.68
ensj-444	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform variety of works by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works.  The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.58
ensj-445	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.76
ensj-446	This course focuses on performance in a jazz big band. The ensemble will perform basic repertoire with the aim of developing abilities in sight reading and idiomatic performance practice.  The ensemble may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.72
ensj-455	Rehearsal and performance in one of Capilano University's jazz choirs. The intent of the class is to build group singing abilities in such areas as phrasing, blending and intonation.	2.87
ensj-456	This course includes performance of various styles of a cappella and accompanied vocal ensemble repertoire with an emphasis on jazz literature and small group performance, i.e. one singer per part.	2.65
ensj-461	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.81
ensj-462	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform advanced repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and will also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.63
ensj-463	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.59
ensj-464	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and rhythm section. The ensemble will perform a variety of repertoire by major jazz performers and arrangers and may also read and perform student works. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.62
ensj-465	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments. The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, student works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire. Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.62
ensj-466	This course focuses on performance in a large ensemble featuring voices and instruments. The ensemble will perform music from the jazz tradition, student works, world music, and adaptations from the classical repertoire. Students will be expected to contribute to the organization of concerts and the arranging of new repertoire. The course includes mandatory participation in concert performances throughout the semester, some of which may occur away from the Capilano University campus.	2.72
ensj-485	Participation in the Capilano University large Jazz Ensemble for development of phrasing and sight reading skills.	2.72
ensj-486	Students rehearse in small  like instrument  ensembles under an instructor's supervision in preparation for a number of performances.	2.6
ensj-490	An ensemble comprised exclusively of percussion instruments of both definite and indefinite pitch. Students will develop their sight reading and interpretive skills.	2.72
jazz-101	This course examines the fundamental grammar and syntax of tonal music,	1.91
jazz-102	This course progresses to a more contextual investigation of the fundamentals of tonal music including harmonic progression theory, root position part-writing and use of chord inversions to create more melodic bass lines and a greater variety of vertical sonorities.	2.04
jazz-116	The course equips musicians whose performance medium is not a keyboard instrument with keyboard skills so that they may utilize the instrument as a resource tool. Students will study major scales, basic chords and chord sequences. Students will learn to play melodies with simple left hand accompaniment as well as two-handed accompaniments.	2.02
jazz-117	The course equips musicians whose performance medium is not a keyboard instrument with keyboard skills so that they may utilize the instrument as a resource tool.  Students will learn to: play modes of the major and melodic minor scales, transpose chord sequences in many keys; make simple arrangements of jazz standards with melody in the right hand and accompaniment in the left hand.	1.82
jazz-130	This course introduces students to the fundamental materials and syntax of tonal music including notation by hand and with computer software. Students will learn to: construct major and minor scales and diatonic modes; build intervals, triads and seventh chords; analyze triads and seventh chords using jazz chord symbols, roman numerals and figured bass; compose simple harmonic progressions and melodies; analyze and write four-part chorales.	1.95
jazz-131	This course will give students a working knowledge of traditional tonal harmony and the ability to analyze music of varied structures and textures. Students will learn to: construct and analyze tonal harmonic progressions; recognize implied harmonic rhythm in tonal melodies; identify non-harmonic tones; voice-lead diatonic triads and seventh chords including secondary dominants; analyze phrase structure in binary and ternary forms.	2.05
jazz-172	A study of four-part block harmonization arranging techniques.	2.08
jazz-174	This course is an introduction to jazz history, from its origins in New Orleans through to the bebop era. The major style periods to be covered include ragtime, early jazz, swing, and bebop.	1.87
jazz-175	This course continues the work of JAZZ 174 beginning with a review of jazz 1940-50, and continuing through to the present. The major style periods to be covered include: bebop, cool, hard bop, avant-garde, fusion, and contemporary trends.	2.05
jazz-184	This course focuses on acquiring the skills to translate music from the audible to the written or from the written to the audible, utilizing the singing voice as a tool for clarifying, verifying, internalizing and communicating musical thought. Students will learn to sing, sight sing, and take dictation involving basic musical materials including simple diatonic melodies in major and minor keys, harmonic progressions including diatonic triads and inversions, and rhythms in common time signatures.	1.99
jazz-185	This course focuses on acquiring the skills to translate music from the audible to the written or from the written to the audible, utilizing the singing voice as a tool for clarifying, verifying, internalizing and communicating musical thought. Students will learn to sing, sight sing, and take dictation involving basic musical materials including diatonic melodies and bass roots at once, harmonic progressions including secondary dominants and  inverted chords, and rhythms in common and 'odd time signatures'.	1.8
jazz-196	This course teaches basic skills in small ensemble performance and improvisation.  Through lecture and small ensemble performance labs, students will explore a variety of jazz styles with a focus on improvising and collaborating successfully with other musicians.	2.01
jazz-197	This course teaches basic skills in small ensemble performance and improvisation.  Through lecture and small ensemble performance labs, students will explore the work of significant jazz and 'tin pan alley' composers with a focus on improvising and collaborating successfully with other musicians. Students will begin the process of acquiring a repertoire of jazz standards in a variety of styles.	2.02
jazz-230	This course builds upon JAZZ 130 and 131 by integrating concepts of harmonic, melodic, and formal logic through analysis, performance, and composition. Theoretical concepts taught in this course are designed to support performance-based studies in JAZZ 282.  Students will learn to use computer notation software to complete essential tasks such as creating lead sheets, parts for rhythm section, and parts for common wind and brass instruments.	2.26
jazz-231	The course explores sophisticated harmonic and formal structures, as found in the music of Mingus, Monk, Wheeler, Shorter, Ellington and Strayhorn, and correlative European art music. Theoretical concepts taught in this course are designed to support concurrent performance-based studies in JAZZ 283.   Students will learn to use computer software to notate music of sophisticated melodic, contrapuntal, formal, and structural character.	2.23
jazz-236	This course is designed to develop the student's scat singing ability through the study and application of chord-scales theory.	2.25
jazz-237	A continuation of JAZZ 236.	2.25
jazz-240	A study of complete works exhibiting the most significant formal designs of the 18th and 19th centuries, using a variety of visual means to clarify the roles of harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic structure in the articulation of musical form.	2.26
jazz-241	A study of 18th century tonal counterpoint and its connections with tonal music in general.  Analysis and composition based upon two-part works of J.S. Bach.	2.26
jazz-250	This course provides a foundation in basic audio production techniques for musicians - essential knowledge and skills necessary to assist in the planning and production of music performance.  The student will participate as performer and as technician to gain a appreciation of both perspectives.	2.27
jazz-271	A chronological exploration of the repertoire, style, and social history of music to 1770 for undergraduate students in the Jazz Studies program. Repertoire will be contextualized both within the framework of European cultural history and in the broader context of world music.	2.01
jazz-272	Arranging projects for various combinations of instruments, plus a study of two and three-part writing.	2.27
jazz-273	A continuation of Music History I covering the classical period through the 20th century. As in Music History I, repertoire will be contextualized both within the framework of European cultural history and in the broader context of world music.	2.06
jazz-274	The course focuses on the European art music tradition from the earliest notations through to the music of J.S. Bach, with a particular emphasis on the common practice that begins in the early seventeenth century. Along with important historical developments and the evolution of styles and genre, the course content will also include aspects of social, cultural, and political history relevant to the chosen repertoire.	2.02
jazz-275	This course focuses on the European art music tradition from the Classical through Late Romantic eras. The music of this period will be examined within the framework of European cultural history including literature, architecture, and the visual arts.	2.03
jazz-282	This course teaches melodic improvisation on simple chord progressions incorporating the ii-V-I chord sequence.  Through lecture and performance lab components, students will learn and apply various methods for acquiring, developing, and practicing melodic vocabulary appropriate to blues forms and basic jazz standards.	2.05
jazz-283	This course teaches melodic improvisation idiomatic to bebop, hard bop, and modal jazz materials, including repertoire with rapid harmonic movement and fast tempos.  Through lecture and performance lab components, students will learn and apply various methods for acquiring, developing, and practicing melodic vocabulary appropriate to these styles.	2.07
jazz-284	This course focuses on acquiring the skills to translate music from the audible to the written or from the written to the audible, utilizing the singing voice as a tool for clarifying, verifying, internalizing and communicating musical thought. Students will learn to sing, sight sing, and take dictation involving complex musical materials including melodies and chord progressions at once, complex harmonic progressions featuring secondary and mixed-mode chords, and complex rhythms.	2.14
jazz-285	This course focuses on acquiring the skills to translate music from the audible to the written or from the written to the audible, utilizing the singing voice as a tool for clarifying, verifying, internalizing and communicating musical thought. Students will learn to sing, sight sing, and take dictation involving complex musical materials including chromatic melodies, complex rhythms and chord progressions, and extended formal structures.	2.15
jazz-296	This course focuses on small ensemble performance. Students will receive coaching during weekly rehearsals to improve ensemble interaction, and to provide techniques and methods to help them to use rehearsal time effectively and to creatively interpret music in a wide variety of styles within the jazz idiom. In addition to live performance, the students will gain performance experience in a studio recording environment.	2.01
jazz-297	This course focuses on small ensemble performance and builds on the work of JAZZ 296 with more challenging repertoire. Students will receive coaching during weekly rehearsals to improve ensemble interaction, and to provide techniques and methods to help them to use rehearsal time effectively and to creatively interpret music in a wide variety of styles within the jazz idiom. In addition to live performance, the students will gain performance experience in a studio recording environment.	2.21
jazz-300	A survey of compositional techniques and theoretical principles utilized from 1890 to the present, coupled with an examination of various major composers and their musical masterpieces.	2.65
jazz-303	This course teaches basic arranging techniques for ensembles with rhythm section and 4 or 5 woodwind or brass instruments. In this context, students will learn a variety of techniques for harmonizing melodies in 4 and 5 parts.	2.55
jazz-304	This course teaches basic arranging techniques for ensembles with rhythm section and 2 or 3 'lead' instruments. In this context, students will learn to arrange in a variety of linear and contrapuntal styles.	2.62
jazz-310	Concepts, methods, and resources; examination and comparison of textbooks, recordings, tapes, and materials related to the study of jazz.	2.4
jazz-320	This course addresses rudiments of conducting technique and ensemble leadership. The practical application of conducting techniques will take place in class and with small and large ensembles from Capilano University.	2.58
jazz-321	Building on the work of JAZZ 320, this course focuses on ensemble leadership and addresses in greater depth the study and preparation of scores as well as rehearsal and conducting skills in the jazz genre and application of those skills in a variety of pedagogical settings. The practical application of the techniques will take place in class and with small and large ensembles from Capilano University.	2.58
jazz-322	This course teaches fundamental techniques for playing instruments from the woodwind family including saxophones, flutes, clarinets, oboe, and bassoon. The class is designed to help future primary and secondary school music educators explain and teach these instruments to their students.	2.53
jazz-323	This course continues the work of JAZZ 322, teaching fundamental techniques for playing instruments from the woodwind family including saxophones, flutes, clarinets, oboe, and bassoon.  The class is designed to help future primary and secondary school music educators explain and teach these instruments to their students. In this course, students will learn to deal with music of greater technical demands.	2.55
jazz-324	This course teaches fundamental techniques for playing instruments from the brass family including trumpet, trombone, French horn, tuba, and euphonium. The class is designed to help future primary and secondary school music educators explain and teach these instruments to their students.	2.48
jazz-325	This course teaches fundamental techniques for playing instruments from the percussion family, including both pitched and non-pitched percussion instruments.  The class is designed to help future primary and secondary school music educators explain and teach these instruments to their students.	2.64
jazz-330	The course teaches musical form and compositional design through exploration of canonic repertoire of the medieval through contemporary periods. The course is designed to illuminate the roles of harmonic, melodic, rhythmic and other aspects of compositional design in generating and articulating musical forms to the listener in time.	2.43
jazz-331	This course develops aural and theoretical awareness of counterpoint and its basic importance in many types of music, including jazz, and to develop an understanding of how to combine two melodies while maintaining vertical control and creating a desired harmonic effect. Detailed study of 18th century tonal counterpoint and practical composition exercises are emphasized.	2.58
jazz-336	A continuation of JAZZ 237. Seats may be restricted to vocal majors.	2.63
jazz-337	A continuation of JAZZ 336.	2.41
jazz-338	A continuation of Vocal Jazz Master Class II instruction with more emphasis on individual contribution and responsibility. Seats may be restricted to vocal majors.	2.55
jazz-339	A continuation of JAZZ 338.	2.57
jazz-370	A follow-up to JAZZ 170. Detailed study of the major figures in jazz from 1940 to the present, such as Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, and Bill Evans.	2.63
jazz-372	A study of instrumental writing styles and techniques for big band arranging.	2.52
jazz-374	The course is an exploration of twentieth-century modernism. In particular the course will focus on the disparity of styles, and approaches to modernism that took place in the wake of the dissolution of a common practice. In this context, the course also examines jazz music's trajectory from popular music to experimental and avant-garde styles within this same time period.	2.47
jazz-375	The course introduces students to the methods of ethnomusicology with an emphasis on musical cultures outside of Western Europe. The course will include not only the description of characteristic musical attributes for various cultural regions but it will also involve the application of ethnomusicological concepts to individual musical contexts.	2.66
jazz-376	This course explores the musical cultures of the African Diaspora, tracing intersecting and multi-directional movements of people, music, and cultures across the oceanic divide between Africa, Europe, and the Americas. The course examines the central role that music has played in the construction of social identities and movements, from the era of the transatlantic slave trade to the present day.	2.58
jazz-382	This course contains both lecture and lab components. Content  includes melodic minor modes including the altered scale, whole-tone and diminished symmetrical chord scales, chromaticism, and analysis and composition of solos in various styles.	2.52
jazz-383	A continuation of JAZZ 382. Content will include: exploration of the harmonic resources of scales, chromatic approaches using pentatonic and altered pentatonic scales, 4th chord stacks, polychordal triad relationships, outside playing, and the philosophy of free jazz.	2.67
jazz-394	A variety of jazz styles ranging from 'bebop', 'mainstream', and 'current' will be studied, and students will perform, spontaneously, 'standard' repertoire.	2.54
jazz-395	A continuation of JAZZ 394, with further emphasis on spontaneous performance of 'standard' repertoire.	2.63
jazz-396	This course focuses on small ensemble performance. The course requires learning works from the standard repertoire while allowing students some opportunities to rehearse and perform their own compositions and arrangements.	2.47
jazz-397	This course focuses on small ensemble performance. Building on the work of JAZZ 396, the course teaches jazz repertoire of a highly challenging and sophisticated character and allows students increasing opportunities to rehearse and perform their own compositions and arrangements.	2.51
jazz-400	Through score study, composition exercise, and research projects, students will develop analytical strategies for music of the post-common practice era. The course will address a variety of musical subjects from a theoretical point of view informed by historical and cultural context.  Specific areas of focus will vary from semester to semester on the basis of instructor expertise, current developments in academic research, and student interests.	2.9
jazz-401	The course is presented in a seminar style whereby students experience the academic autonomy to pursue unique research projects. The instructor will present topics drawn from the western art music tradition from antiquity to the postmodern. Each student will work closely with the instructor in shaping research projects relevant to their particular interests.	2.72
jazz-403	The course teaches arranging for jazz orchestra.  Techniques for formal organization, counterpoint, sectional and cross-sectional voicing will be learned through the study of significant repertoire from the jazz tradition as well as from contemporary composers.	2.52
jazz-404	The course teaches arranging for jazz choir with rhythm section.  Techniques for formal organization, voicings, harmonization, and lyricization will be learned through the study of significant repertoire from the jazz tradition as well as from contemporary composers.	2.65
jazz-410	A study of basic conducting techniques.	2.93
jazz-411	A continuation of Conducting I with emphasis on vocal and instrumental approaches.	2.69
jazz-420	This course teaches foundational concepts in jazz pedagogy including the resources and methodology necessary for effective teaching in a variety of contexts including public school, university, and private practice.	2.72
jazz-422	This course prepares students for the profession of teaching music in schools and as independent music teachers. The course focuses on a pedagogy based around a unified concept of music, dance, the body, movement, and the aural tradition. Students will be taught various traditional and popular music styles from West Africa and learn to adapt these styles of music to school teaching. Students will learn the basics of Orff Schulwerk pedagogy in a West African context (an approach known as Orff Afrique) with a view to adapting this methodology to a varied of classroom music settings.	2.64
jazz-423	The course provides an introduction to choral instructional methods, musical works, and materials suitable for teaching music to students in secondary school choirs and choral music classes. The course is designed to prepare the beginning choral teacher or conductor to use choral methods, literature, and materials for the optimal development of musical skills and musical literacy in young singers in an ensemble.	2.96
jazz-460	A course involving aspects of the music industry including copyright, contracts, performing rights organizations and the recording industry.	2.69
jazz-470	A study of the musics of the world outside of the Western European tradition.	2.83
jazz-472	This course will give the student a practical understanding of the different techniques used in arranging for large jazz ensembles and vocal ensembles. Students will write their own arrangements and hear them played in class.	2.89
jazz-494	A jazz performance ensemble for more advanced players. Students will be required to perform in public several times during the semester.	2.77
jazz-495	A continuation of JAZZ 494.	2.77
jazz-496	This course focuses on small ensemble performance. Students will work independently and in coached settings to create full-length concerts of original compositions and arrangements presented at a professional level.	2.9
jazz-497	This course focuses on small ensemble performance. Students will work independently and in coached settings to create full-length concerts of original compositions and arrangements presented at a professional level. In consultation with the instructor, students will conceive and execute a significant final project featuring original compositions. This project will be documented with video and audio recordings.	2.68
kine-103	This course highlights the role of physical activity and wellness factors in the maintenance of an overall healthy lifestyle. Specific health behaviors associated with chronic disease will be identified along with their health outcomes. The health benefits associated with physical activity and healthy lifestyle choices will be encouraged and behaviour change models considered. Students will apply basic physical fitness principles, theories, exercise methods and techniques associated with positive health outcomes. Students will assess, design and implement personal physical activity and wellness programs using a behavior change model.	1.95
kine-112	This course is an introduction to fundamental principles related to health and human nutrition. It is intended to help students understand the foundations of digestion and the functions of nutrients. Nutritional planning and assessment in the context of national dietary recommendations, and consequences of deficient or excessive intake of nutrients will also be studied. Through this course, students will gain an understanding of how food selection can play a role in enhancing or maintaining health. Students will also develop the ability to discriminate between reliable and unreliable information about food and nutrition.	2.03
kine-125	This course focuses on understanding self and personal leadership. It covers a broad range of leadership topics from understanding self and group behaviour, teamwork, organizational design, ethics and change.	1.84
kine-151	This course introduces students to the qualitative and quantitative analysis of human movement.  Using basic principles of physics and math, students will learn to apply kinematic and kinetic analyses to understand motion. The course also utilizes musculoskeletal anatomy and physiology to describe and explain movement.	1.98
kine-161	This course provides an introductory analysis of political, economic and social issues in leisure and sport. Students will examine present day problems, myths and stereotypes in leisure and sport.	2.02
kine-162	This course will provide an examination of lifestyle behaviours in the context of contemporary health issues. Current health, wellness and behavior change models and frameworks will be reviewed and applied to personal health planning. Topics include: stress management, psychosocial health, physical activity and healthy eating, chronic disease, alcohol and drug use, personal relationships, infectious diseases, aging and the environment.	1.97
kine-190	This course will explore the structure and function of the cellular, skeletal, muscular, nervous, immune and reproductive systems of the human body. Special emphasis is given to the actions and interactions of these systems during normal life processes.	1.95
kine-191	This course will examine the anatomy and physiology of the digestive, urinary, endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory and energy systems of the human body. Some emphasis will be given to the physiological changes of these systems during exercise.	2.05
kine-206	This course will continue to build on the student's knowledge regarding the anatomical make-up of the human body while investigating the	2.17
kine-225	The purpose of this course is to enable students to develop a critical understanding of the bio-psychosocial, economic, and political forces that shape how the health issues of older adults are perceived in Canada. In particular, how does aging impact the health of older adults? What social factors influence 'healthy aging'? and What are the central issues/concerns associated with aging and health?	2.29
kine-230	This course examines the processes underlying human movement and the factors influencing acquisition, performance and movement control during the learning of motor skills. Applications related to motor skill acquisition and learning are considered as implemented in health, fitness, sport and education settings.	2.1
kine-231	The purpose of this course is to review and apply the psychological theories and research related to sport and exercise behavior. Students design programs implementing skills and strategies for psychological interventions. Students observe strategies used for enhancing sport performance, personal growth and exercise prescription in sport, health, education and fitness environments.	2.09
kine-241	This course introduces students to the recognition and treatment of common sports injuries.  Building on their knowledge of musculoskeletal anatomy, students will learn how to assess, rehabilitate, and tape or brace sports injuries to enhance the recovery process and speed healing.	2.29
kine-261	This course is designed as an introduction to the sociology of health and illness. Students will analyze health policy and the social determinants of health in society using social models and theories as a framework for understanding. Current health issues and their social influences will be discussed in relation to the overall population health of Canadians. Students will examine the historical and current context of the Canadian Medical System.	2.13
kine-275	This course will explore the acute and chronic effects of exercise on body systems; specifically cardiovascular, respiratory and muscular responses to physical activity will be examined.	2.24
kine-284	This course is an introduction to human growth and motor development through the lifespan. Students will gain an understanding of how the human body progresses from prenatal development to old age. The goal of the course is to give students the foundations to understanding the factors that influence physical, motor, social and cognitive growth and development. Students will also develop their research and critical inquiry skills by investigating current issues related to human development.	2.2
kine-296	This course provides kinesiology students the opportunity to hear from, and interact with, current professionals in the performance, health and wellness industry while refining their presentation and public speaking skills. Students will be in contact with people from some of the various career paths they may be interested in pursuing, fostering professional inquiry and opening the door for networking and future course selection.	2.23
kine-301	This course will introduce students to research methods in Kinesiology and their practical applications. Topics covered include: the fundamentals of research design, critical analyses of the literature and strategies for developing research proposals.	2.65
kine-302	This course will build upon the knowledge gathered in KINE 301, and will introduce students to the basic statistics and methods used in the field of Kinesiology to quantitatively analyze and interpret data.	2.67
kine-306	This course investigates the theories and applied principles of physical training and conditioning as they relate to flexibility improvement, muscular strength, endurance and power development. The principles and training variables of weight and plyometric training will be examined and detailed comparisons of various weight training programs will be performed.	2.61
kine-312	This course will explore the origins and safety of the food supply and will progress to discuss the role that nutrition has in the prevention and treatment of common degenerative diseases. Special emphasis will be directed toward preventing these chronic conditions and establishing lifelong healthy eating habits.	2.55
kine-317	This course will introduce students to various techniques, equipment, testing and application of exercise science in a laboratory setting. Students will learn the background information to the methods in lecture and then apply what they have learned to the collection of data and present their findings in research-based laboratory reports.	2.66
kine-320	This course is an introduction to the study of aging. The goal of the course is to give students the foundations to understanding the physical and mental states associated with aging. Through this course, students will gain an understanding of how the process of aging may impact the quality of life in senescence and identify factors that may impact interactions with aged individuals.	2.66
kine-325	This course presents a number of concepts, skills and issues related to effective leadership in health and physical activity settings including: self-leadership, decision-making, group dynamics, supervision and teamwork skills. Topics such as leadership perspectives and styles, personal management and building a culture for success will be covered.	2.53
kine-329	This course will explore ethics in sport and professional practice. Ethics specific to Canadian law concerning consent, record keeping, trust and confidentiality, standards of care and professionalism, beneficence, negligence and non-maleficence will be considered. Distribution of health care resources and responsibility of health outcomes will also be examined.	2.69
kine-331	This course is designed to inspire people to adopt new health behaviours. This course specifically focuses on the central element for change. Students will learn about theories and the complementary behaviour change techniques that have been developed to help change people's unhealthy behaviours and encourage healthy choices. Students will critically evaluate the scientific literature and design and implement behaviour change programs developing the practical skills necessary to guide people toward change.	2.46
kine-335	This course will provide students with practical and theoretical skills needed to plan, implement and evaluate health promotion programs in a variety of settings. Physical activity programs will be emphasized.	2.48
kine-351	This course will build on the movement assessment skills introduced in KINE 151 and further refine qualitative analysis. Students will analyze human movement to improve performance of a skill or reduce the risk of injury during movement. This course encourages higher levels of critical thinking such as synthesis and evaluation, while blending techniques and information from the disciplines of Exercise Rehab, Exercise Psychology, Exercise Physiology and Motor Control and Learning.	2.67
kine-364	This course will illustrate the relationship between socio-economics and health issues within a global context. The burden of major global health diseases, particularly in the areas of nutrition, communicable, non-communicable, environmental health and humanitarian crises will be examined. Global health issues across the lifespan will also be addressed as will foundational topics such as ethics, principles and goals for global health, health determinants, measurements and trends in health, education, poverty and the economy.	2.56
kine-369	This course introduces the principles and theories of instructional design within a health and physical activity context. Through a variety of activities students learn how to assess the instructional environment, develop an instructional plan, apply specific instructional strategies and evaluate the effectiveness of instruction.	2.62
kine-375	This course builds on the student's knowledge of exercise physiology, and promotes theoretical and practical investigation of advanced exercise physiology in neural, energy, cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. In addition, students will also have the opportunity to explore physiological changes of exercise in high altitude, microgravity, thermal stress and diving.	2.42
kine-390	This course will provide students with detailed knowledge of the musculoskeletal system using a combination of lecture and lab experiences. Emphasis will be placed on axial and appendicular anatomy, but neural and vascular structures that supply these regions will also be studied. Special emphasis will be given to the identification and palpation of superficial anatomy when there is clinical or athletic relevance.	2.46
kine-396	This course gives students the opportunity to begin preparation for transition into fieldwork and the job market. This course focuses on essential facets of career preparation including interview skills and resume writing, while introducing students to various protocols, standards and ethics they may encounter in their chosen career paths.	2.62
kine-397	This course will provide students with a practical and professional experience in a hands on learning environment. Students will be able to explore career interests in kinesiology, health sciences, coaching, health promotion, fitness and health in special populations, etc., while identifying and cultivating skills associated to the tasks presented in their placements. This course aims to increase student awareness of organizations operating in their field while enhancing marketability and employability of the student through networking and professional development.	2.45
kine-405	This course builds on the student's knowledge of development of health and wellness program implementation. The course discusses how theoretical and applied aspects of exercise testing and exercise prescription must be modified due to the restrictions and/or limitations created by a specific health state.	2.76
kine-495	This course is designed for students who are interested in the neurological and musculoskeletal control of movement. Students will explore the origins of movement disorders associated with the motor and sensory system, and injuries related to the brain and spinal cord. This course introduces a range of interventional strategies and rehabilitation techniques that can be used to restore movement control in a rehabilitation setting.	2.85
kine-497	This course provides students an opportunity to expand their practical and professional experience in a hands on learning environment. Students will be able to explore career interests in kinesiology, health sciences, coaching, health promotion, fitness and health in special populations, etc., while identifying and cultivating skills associated to the tasks presented in their placements. This course aims to increase student awareness of organizations operating in their field while enhancing marketability and employability of the student through networking and professional development.	2.83
kine-499	This course focuses on providing a summary/reflection of experiences gained during the BKIN Degree. Students will be supervised by a School of Kinesiology faculty member as they develop and carry out their activities in the chosen field.	2.85
sds-100	    This course provides learners with the skills and supports to successfully complete online, teleconference, correspondence and other distance education courses. Directed Studies will provide access to computer labs and instructional supports such as study skills, time management, computer literacy and other skills required for success in self-directed studies.	1.97
lgst-108	This course introduces students to family law in British Columbia, including court procedures, rules, and legislation. Students will learn the principles of family law litigation practice in British Columbia and be able to complete a simple uncontested divorce application.	2.03
lgst-109	Introduction to the procedures, rules and legislation applicable to civil litigation in the Supreme Court of BC.	1.95
lgst-110	Students will learn about the procedures and documents that legal administrative assistants use to incorporate companies and perform routine filings. This will include documents required for the BC Business Corporations Act, records office requirements, annual maintenance of corporate records books, and share certificates and registration. The class prepares a corporate records book as part of a term project.	1.98
lgst-112	This course covers the contract of purchase and sale, Land Title Act requirements for registration of title in BC, search procedures, preparation of primary and secondary documents and forms involved in conveying title and registering charges.	1.99
lgst-114	This course examines the BC Wills, Estates and Succession Act. Students will learn the requirements to prepare and execute a valid will and how to prepare the necessary documents to obtain Grants of Probate in the Supreme Court of BC.	1.92
lgst-116	This course provides students with the necessary working knowledge of the Canadian legal system, the BC court system, Indigenous law, and common causes of action, including torts and breach of contract. Students will also learn about the roles on a legal team and the regulatory framework for legal professionals.	1.86
lgst-119	Following successful completion of their final term, a work practicum is to be completed. Before the practicum, the student will be required to attend career preparation classes, which will include resume preparation and interview techniques.	2.02
lgst-124	This course looks at the effects of individual and group behaviour in organizations. Topics include leader behaviour and power, motivation, attitude development, perception, work stress and conflict. Students will also learn how to apply communication, problem solving and conflict resolution skills toward an organization's overall effectiveness.	1.92
lgst-125	This course prepares legal administrative assistant students for positions in law offices. Students receive instruction in opening files, time keeping, diary systems, use of law library, ethical responsibilities, filing, and other procedures particular to the profession. The students will create client files, add documents to the files, bill clients and at the end of the course, close the files. The students will learn to manage time and projects while being interrupted with other urgent tasks. Transcription will be used as a means to deliver many course materials and instructions.	1.94
lgst-126	This course provides students with a basic knowledge of securities regulation in Canada with a focus on British Columbia securities legislation, securities procedures and the preparation of basic securities documents.	2.03
lgst-127	This course introduces students to basic and intermediate word processing concepts using Microsoft Word. Students will gain proficiency working with the software by producing a variety of legal documents formatted according to legal office standards.	1.93
lgst-128	This course introduces students to advanced word processing concepts using Microsoft Word, and to basic spreadsheet concepts using Microsoft Excel. Students will gain proficiency working with the software by applying their knowledge to legal concepts.	2.08
law-101	    This course introduces students to the legal system in Canada, starting with the forms and sources of law, followed by an exploration of the Constitution, which is the framework for all Canadian law. The constitutional section of the course emphasizes the division of legislative authority between the provinces and the federal government, and the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The course also introduces students to legal professional responsibility, as well as topics such as administrative law, private law, Indigenous law, and international law.	1.85
law-110	    This course introduces students to basic legal analysis through the study of case law and legislation. Students will learn to identify legal issues and rules, write case briefs, and prepare legal memoranda in which they apply rules to specific fact situations.	1.96
law-115	    Using a PC, students will be introduced to advanced word processing concepts through document generating applications normally part of the day-to-day operations in a legal office. The student will also be exposed to various legal software applications.	2.0
law-130	    Students will gain an understanding of the sources and developing theory of criminal law in Canada. We will take the theoretical aspects of criminal law and apply them to criminal proceedings to broaden the students understanding of the concepts involved.	2.08
law-139	    This is a work placement program of 52 weeks which focuses on the various processes and procedures common to the work performed by Paralegals within the BC Criminal Justice system.  Pre-employment and sponsorship by the BC Criminal Justice Branch is required.  The practicum must be completed within 2 years of commencement.	2.02
law-140	    Students will learn the fundamentals of substantive family law, as well as basic Supreme Court and Provincial Court procedures. Particular emphasis will be placed upon the Divorce Act, Family Law Act, Child, Family and Community Service Act, Adoption Act, and court rules at different levels.	1.88
law-200	    Students will be introduced to all the elements of negligence, the largest area of tort law, through the study of case law and statutes.	2.07
law-201	    In this course, students will continue an examination of tort law through the study of case law and statutes, considering a number of issues including economic negligence, occupiers' liability, nuisance, strict liability and the intentional torts.	2.22
law-210	    This course introduces students to the process of legal research in Canada. Students will learn legal research techniques required to locate legislation, case law and secondary sources by citation, title, keywords, and subject matter. They will learn to find relevant legal information using online sources and will learn to properly cite these sources.	2.12
law-220	    Students will learn the principles of a civil litigation practice in BC. The course will cover chronologically the events that arise in a civil law suit in the Supreme Court of BC. Emphasis is on familiarization with and the use of the Supreme Court Civil Rules to enable the learner, under the supervision of a lawyer, to prepare documents and follow procedures required in the course of a civil action. The learner is encouraged to solve particular problems by using the Supreme Court Civil Rules and civil litigation court forms and precedents.	2.3
law-230	    Students will study the law of evidence, and learn to analyse and critically apply the rules of evidence through lectures and the case study method.	2.17
law-240	    Students will learn the fundamentals of substantive estate law. As well, they will learn the formal requirements for preparing and executing wills and codicils in British Columbia, and of probate procedures (including grants of probate and administration, preparing an estate inventory, devolution, transmission and transfer of assets, income tax requirements, passing accounts, executor's remuneration, solicitor's remuneration, and relevant limitation dates).	2.25
law-300	    Students will be introduced to contract law through the study of case law and statutes, focusing on the elements of a valid and enforceable contract.  They will learn to critically evaluate competing theories of contractual validity, synthesize the law and apply relevant principles to fact patterns designed to develop a practical understanding of the elements of an enforceable contact.	2.46
law-301	    Students will continue the examination of contract law by developing and applying analytical strategies to resolve practical problems through the integration of case law and statutes, considering a number of issues such as misrepresentation, interpretation, mistake and remedies.	2.51
law-302	    This course helps students understand the legal framework and key issues related to infrastructure and construction projects, providing the skills and practical background that students, project managers, consultants, and contractors need to effectively navigate real-world situations. Topics include contract interpretation and negotiation, tenders, bidding, procurement, contract administration and enforcement, dispute resolution, and environmental and health and safety concerns.	2.63
law-303	    This course is intended to further students understanding of the sources, theory, and practice of criminal law in Canada. Students will study the law of criminal procedure which regulates the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of criminal offences. This will include the principles and rules of criminal case law in their current and historical contexts.	2.64
law-304	    This course is designed to provide content creators, social media users, and aspiring influencers with a deeper understanding of how various legal principles apply to this online world.  The course will cover key areas such as contracts, intellectual property, defamation, competition, and privacy law. Students will gain insights into the legal landscape that governs social media and the online world, and the challenges the law faces in this space, through real world examples, case studies, and digital media.	2.46
law-305	    Starting with the position of a single artist, this course moves through the creations, legal protections and challenges facing artists and professionals in the arts, music and entertainment industries. What legal protections exist for the visual artist, digital and traditional? What legal issues and implications must a musician, composer, or film professional be aware of in his or her creative life? This course will focus on the key concerns in each of these important cultural industries, including intellectual property, management and contracts, and global issues.	2.45
law-308	    This course will examine the legal issues facing sports organizations, managers, athletes, recreationalists, spectators and recreational facility owners. The student will learn how various areas of law impact the sports and recreation industries, and will cover both civil and criminal matters, administrative law, risk management and important issues such as violence and doping in sport. By the end of the course, the student should be able to identify a range of legal issues relevant in these industries, and apply the common law and statutory rules to various sports and recreational situations.	2.41
law-309	    This course helps students understand sports management and recreation law and provides guidance on navigating the legal frameworks relevant to outdoor and sports industries. Students explore liability, contracts, environmental and property regulations, ethical considerations, and intellectual property and marketing within the sport and recreation setting. Through interactive lectures, case studies, and scenario-based discussions, students gain comprehensive knowledge of risk management, compliance strategies, ethical considerations and environmental stewardship related to outdoor recreation and sports adventures.	2.69
law-310	    Students will build on their theoretical knowledge of the law and develop clear and effective communication skills through drafting legal documents for use by clients of law firms, corporate employers and government.	2.61
law-312	    This course will examine the legal issues surrounding the legalization and regulation of cannabis in Canada. Students will explore the policy considerations that contributed to the regulation of cannabis, and will closely examine the regulatory framework at all levels of government. Students will be encouraged to think critically about that framework, with a view toward relevant considerations such as constitutional and human rights issues. Students will also learn about Indigenous jurisdiction and effects on Indigenous communities, the scope of activity relating to cannabis that remains illegal in Canada, workplace issues, commercial issues relating to Cannabis, and the impact of legalization on immigration and international affairs.	2.66
law-315	    Students will learn to master techniques of legal interviewing through a conducting role play interviews and exercises in critical thinking and discussion about interviewing. Students will gain an understanding of the role of the paralegal with regard to interviewing clients, witnesses, etc., as well as an understanding of the social and interpersonal challenges to conducting an effective legal interview.	2.44
law-316	    This course provides a comprehensive overview of the procedures and processes involved in resolving disputes through the British Columbia Small Claims Court and the Civil Resolution Tribunal (CRT). Students will learn the jurisdictional differences, the procedural steps, and their respective rules of evidence and procedure. The course will also cover the unique aspects of the CRT, including its online dispute resolution process, its facilitation and adjudication approaches, and the role of helpers, including Indigenous Navigators.	2.66
law-317	    This course introduces students to both the theory and practice of conflict resolution from a legal perspective. Students will learn about how conflict arises, the factors that contribute to conflict, and various models for resolving conflict, including litigation, negotiation, and mediation. Students will also experience conflict resolution through role-plays involving various scenarios.	2.4
law-318	    This course introduces students to the theory and practice of mindfulness meditation and its applications in the practice of law and in business and professional life generally. Students will learn about techniques for calming the mind, reducing stress, and achieving greater mental clarity in making intelligent and informed decisions as a professional or as part of a business career. Students will also be introduced to medical evidence regarding the effects of meditation and the significance of meditation in a wider cultural context.	2.67
law-319	    Arbitration is an alternative means to resolve contractual disputes outside of traditional court litigation both domestically and internationally. This course introduces the legal framework that underpins arbitration in Canada and provides students with practical and procedural skills related to the commencement and management of arbitration files, document production (redferns) and hearing logistics.	2.63
law-320	    This course examines pre- and post-judgment creditors' remedies. It will include a consideration of garnishment, execution against land and personal property, and the law of foreclosure and bankruptcy.	2.59
law-322	    Animal law is a dynamic field of legal inquiry and may involve issues relating to tort law, property law, criminal law, family law, contract law, environmental law and more. This course will introduce students to a broad range of laws that affect animals by investigating historical and current issues in animal law. Students will critically analyze how animal law works in practice by examining case law, policies and legislation and as substantive law is examined, students will consider companion, farm and wild animals and their status under Canadian and international laws. Students will engage in fundamental questions about non-human animals, law and society such as: What are the conceptual and legal differences between 'animal rights' and 'animal welfare'? 'Why are some animals highly valued while others are not'?	2.55
law-325	    This course is designed to introduce students to the role of constitutional law in shaping Canadian society, with an emphasis on the major Supreme Court of Canada decisions that have had a substantial impact on people's lives, civil rights, and the economy. The course will examine both the substantial issues addressed in these pivotal cases and the role of the Supreme Court and the judiciary as a whole in Canada's legal, political, and economic system.	2.68
law-329	    This course will focus on two related areas of the law  human rights and 2SLGBTQI+ rights. Students will examine the history and meaning of human rights, including human duties, cultural values, group rights, legal rights, and equality. They will also examine the history and development of 2SLGBTQI+ rights in Canada in several specific areas of the law. They will gain knowledge of ongoing challenges regarding human and 2SLGBTQI+ rights, including the remedies available under Canadas Constitution and Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Finally, students will learn about the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.	2.44
law-330	    To provide the student with a basic understanding of the principles of administrative law, as derived from the common law and relevant statutes.	2.59
law-331	    This course introduces students to the main legal topics involving First Nations in British Columbia and Indigenous people across Canada, including constitutional relations between governments, the Indian Act, Indigenous governance, citizenship, laws affecting Indigenous women, family law, treaty-making, and land and resource management issues.	2.64
law-332	    This course introduces students to the colonized legal system in Canada and the reconciliation movement and identifies the flaws and failures of each. Students will examine the historical, cultural, legal and social dimensions of Indigenous experiences in Canada. Through an in-depth study of colonization, the legacy of historical injustices and contemporary challenges Indigenous Peoples face, students will gain a nuanced understanding of Indigenous issues and their relevance in todays global society.	2.59
law-335	    In this course, students will study the principles and practices of environmental law in Canada. The course will focus on the main areas of protection of the environment  traditional tort law, environmental regulation, environmental assessments and international agreements. Students will gain a thorough knowledge of the current problems in enforcing environmental protections, including such important topics as biodiversity, climate change and the enforcement of international standards in bi-national and transnational law. Students will also critically assess both the effectiveness and, more fundamentally, the effect of Canadian and international environmental law.	2.45
law-340	    Students will develop the skills to understand and apply principles of law relating to corporations including the formation and management of the corporation and the roles of the various stakeholders. Emphasis is on the Canada Business Corporations Act and the British Columbia Business Corporations Act. Also included is an overview of sole proprietorships, partnerships, and the responsibilities of corporations in relation to the environment.	2.67
law-341	    This course will introduce students to Canadian securities law - primarily as it relates to the regulation of public companies, with an emphasis on British Columbia - through the study of legislation, regulatory policies and narrative secondary authorities. Students will gain an understanding of the overall regulatory framework and learn how to complete certain key procedures in relation to specific aspects of securities law practice.	2.66
law-342	    Students develop mastery of the principles of corporate procedures through a practical, problem-solving study of the incorporation and post-incorporation process. Emphasis is on BC Business Corporations Act.	2.55
law-344	    This course will examine the challenges confronting older adults in British Columbia, by looking at the legal framework within which they operate. Upon completion of this course, a student should be able to identify and analyze various legal issues relating to: assessment of mental capacity, independence, privacy, ethical obligations of caregivers and others, and the preparation of legal documents such as Powers of Attorney and Representation Agreements.	2.48
law-349	    Disputes involving wills, estates, and succession matters can vary widely. This course introduces students to the legal framework that underpins Estate Litigation in British Columbia. Students will develop a broad understanding of the key issues in estate disputes, assess case studies and case law and acquire practical skills to effectively and competently navigate Estate Litigation files. Topics include wills variation claims, resulting trusts, unjust enrichment, curating defective wills, committeeship applications, issues with respect to spousal status and other novel estate litigation challenges that arise in BC.	2.62
law-350	    This course will focus on the relationship which arises whenever a person (a trustee) is compelled in equity to hold property for the benefit of some other person or persons. Students will examine express trusts, trusts by operation of law, and statutory trusts. They will gain a thorough understanding of ongoing challenges regarding trusts, including creating a valid trust and how courts use equity to fashion remedies. Finally, students will learn about fiduciary relationships, fiduciary obligations and Indigenous peoples.	2.45
law-355	    This course will introduce students to the principles and practices of immigration, citizenship, and refugee law in Canada. The course will focus on the main areas of immigration  admissibility and inadmissibility and temporary and permanent entry into Canada. It will also deal with citizenship and refugees and protected persons.	2.45
law-360	    The course introduces students to the key principles and sources of labour and employment law in Canada, with a focus on British Columbia. The course will divide the two main areas of the law-individual employment law and union labour law-into the two parts of the university term, beginning with the rights of individuals at common law. Students will gain a thorough knowledge of the current problems in employment and human rights in the workplace, before moving on to the study of collective bargaining and unionism.	2.47
law-370	    This course introduces students to the role of law in shaping Canadian society, emphasizing Supreme Court of Canada decisions on topics such as access to justice, equality rights, freedom of speech and religion, the death penalty, and civil responsibility. This course is suitable both for legal students looking to understand law in social context and for non-law students looking to understand how law shapes and is shaped by the greater society.	2.64
law-374	    Legal actions are either won or lost on case evidence. In todays world, most evidence comes in the form of data. This course equips students with essential knowledge and hands-on experience in digital forensics, a must-have skill for today's legal professionals. Students will learn the stages of digital forensic investigations, understand storage systems, devices, and networks, and learn when to raise flags regarding anti-forensic techniques. Students will also learn the fundamentals of Windows, Mac and Linux machines and mobile devices for the purpose of forensic investigations. Students will consider the dark web, Tor browser, malicious communications, files, and software as they relate to cybercrime and digital forensics. Finally, students will learn to evaluate the volatility of data and best practices for preserving and collecting digital evidence.	2.51
law-375	    This course focusses on the exploration of the critical privacy and cybersecurity risks faced by individuals and organizations in today's technologically dominated world. This course will appraise students with the legislative, policy and regulatory efforts to identify and deal with the true magnitude of cyber and privacy risks people face. Students will be acquainted with strategies and use cases and compliance essentials to deal with these threats. Students will also closely examine the regulatory framework or lack thereof at all levels of government both domestically and internationally and the impact on human rights as well as social and international affairs.	2.55
law-376	    Law firms continue to face cybersecurity attacks. Paralegals are uniquely positioned to act as intermediaries among IT professionals, third-party vendors and other legal professionals. Since the first line of defence against cyberattacks is training, this course introduces paralegals to information governance, cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities, risk management assessments and reporting requirements, data governance principles, privacy, security and prevention practices within a law firm environment.	2.58
law-380	    This course focuses on the legal considerations of a tech startup and the due diligence processes involved in the successful launching of a new venture in the sphere of technology. From ideation inception to successful launch and exit, this course will appraise students with the legal reflections key to each stage of development and creation. Legal studies or business students must be able to integrate the knowledge and skills they have learned in other courses in areas such as legal analysis, marketing, contracts, corporate structures, investment, technology and intellectual property.	2.69
law-389	    This course is based on a supervised legal research project designed by the student in consultation with a faculty member, and involves 100 hours of research and study. This advanced research project will enable the student to acquire and apply legal knowledge and skills - through critical inquiry, legal research and analysis - to a complex problem in a specific field of the law. Students will learn to critically evaluate and analyse complex legal arguments, apply advanced research methods, and recognize the limits of knowledge and understanding in the law.	2.44
law-400	    Students will develop an understanding of the issues central to insurance law through the application of theoretical concepts that apply to practical situations that arise in case analysis and legislation.	2.72
law-401	    The purpose of this course is to provide students with a continuing understanding of the issues raised in Canadian insurance law, including a review of motor vehicle insurance issues and legislation governing ICBC.	2.92
law-410	    This course introduces students to both the theory and practice of trial advocacy for paralegals. Students will learn about steps in the litigation process, courtroom etiquette, ethical issues in legal advocacy and how to prepare and present a case in court. Student work will focus on gaining experience on oral advocacy, including examination, cross examination through role-plays and mock trials involving various real-life scenarios.	2.96
law-415	    This course will introduce the student to the various ethical principles and exceptions guiding the legal profession, and the application of these principles and exceptions to key areas of practice. Students will learn to effectively describe and explain the various ethical obligations to the state, to courts and tribunals, to the profession and the public, and to clients, including the disciplinary consequences for professional malpractice.	2.55
law-420	    Students will apply sound thinking to resolution of practical applications of the Supreme Court Civil Rules and procedures that apply to pre-trial investigation and court applications, including preparation of documents for interlocutory applications, preparation and enforcement of court orders, preparation of bills of costs, and small claims procedures.	2.8
law-421	    In this course, students will focus on the entire process of a civil litigation claim from commencing proceedings, including parties and pleadings, to trial and appeal. The course will examine the main issues faced during a typical litigation claim during discovery, including the various potential interlocutory applications. Students will gain an understanding of the substantive law relating to civil litigation, as opposed to the procedure.	2.76
law-423	    This course will look at the document discovery process as it relates to document preservation, collection, review, and production with a particular focus on electronic discovery tools. Students will be provided with access to a working database of documents that is set up for a mock client. The database that students will use contains thousands of documents. Based on the mock client's needs, students will learn how to build, manipulate, support and maintain the database. Students will gain the ability to understand and use e-discovery tools that are necessary in the legal industry, particularly with respect to litigation.	2.76
law-425	    Students will develop an understanding of the fundamentals of the day-to-day workings of a law office. Particular emphasis will be placed on: practice management systems used in small and large law firms; the impact of technology on the legal profession; computerized applications of law office systems; the solicitor/client relationship; the BC Law Society Rules; professional ethics and the role of the paralegal; and law office accounting procedures, including the Law Society Rules on trust accounting.	2.79
law-440	    This course introduces students to the fundamental principles governing the law of real property using the case study method and through a review of legislation affecting real property, including the Land Title Act, Property Law Act and Law and Equity Act. Students will become familiar with the BC Torrens registry land title system and its application in a common law jurisdiction.	2.81
law-442	    Students will learn basic conveyance and mortgage procedures in BC. They will learn to prepare documents required in a conveyance and mortgage procedure from a purchaser's perspective as well as a vendor's perspective. They will learn about ancillary concepts and documents required in other Land Title Office related transactions as well as understand foreclosure procedures. They will also be able to apply conveyancing principles to advanced practical problem-solving exercises.	2.91
law-443	    This course will examine the legal issues facing legal practitioners in the area of commercial real estate development. This is an advanced course building upon the skills learned in LAW 442 Conveyancing Procedures. The student will learn about the real estate development process as well as garner an understanding of the basic legal principles, legislation and legal documents involved. By the end of the course, the student should be able to identify a range of legal issues as well as prepare documents relevant to the Real Estate Development Practice for everything from land acquisition, to legal requirements for development financing and marketing, as well as the unique planning and regulatory environment of the Vancouver Municipality.	2.94
law-450	    Students will develop an understanding of the common law relating to intellectual property, as well as engage in a general review of Canadian legislation affecting intellectual property, its management and the enforcement of intellectual property rights. Indigenous perspectives and new issues and problems created by the Internet and e-commerce will also be examined.	2.65
law-453	    This course will examine the legal issues behind structuring and financing the tech start-up. Students will learn about early stage structuring from proprietorship to corporation and the legal advantages and pitfalls of each structure. They will also learn about the legal framework behind the angel investment round, tax incentive programs and legal liability, early stage debt financing options, investment due diligence, Series A financing, drafting the term sheet, and post Series A financing. By the end of the course, students should be able to identify a range of legal issues as well as prepare a Series A financing term sheet for a tech start-up.	2.8
law-460	    This course will introduce students to international law and explore its basic principles and structures, including its historical development, subjects and sources of international law, international human rights, indigenous peoples, international trade and environmental law, law of the sea, and war and conflict, and global governance institutions.	2.67
law-461	    This course will focus on the major legal issues that face Canadian courts when they are asked to resolve cross-border disputes that arise in the major areas of private law, including questions on constitutional law, public policy, court jurisdiction and the enforcement of foreign judgments. Students will gain a thorough knowledge of ongoing challenges that arise in private law disputes involving Indigenous persons, tort law, contracts and business, succession, property law, and family law.	2.95
law-462	    This course will introduce the principles and institutions of international human rights law and the legal instruments designed for their protection. The extent to which international law is an effective vehicle for the protection of human rights will be considered, as well as questions about cultural relativism and the universality of human rights. The course will explore the nature of civil and political rights, social and economic rights, and the rights of women, Indigenous peoples, children and persons with disabilities. In addition, the role of non-governmental organizations and international courts and tribunals will be examined.	2.95
law-464	    This course will provide students with a foundation for understanding the international human rights system and examine how women's rights pose particular challenges and opportunities for the realization of human rights and social justice. Attention will be paid to women's experience of human rights violations as gendered. The course will explore issues of cultural relativism, gender mainstreaming and the intersectionality of rights, Aboriginal women's rights, women's health, women and religion, violence against women and women and governance.	2.89
law-466	    In this course students will study some of the major crimes that have been made subject to international investigation and enforcement; principally, war crimes, crimes against humanity, terrorism, and state-sponsored crime. Students will gain a thorough knowledge of the ongoing challenges facing the International Criminal Court and domestic courts in North America, Europe and Asia in the investigation, prosecution and punishment of international and transnational crimes.	2.55
law-467	    The course will focus on the major existing and emerging transnational crimes that have been made subject to investigation and law enforcement, such as piracy, trafficking, terrorism, and cyber and environmental crimes.  Students will gain a thorough knowledge of ongoing challenges regarding jurisdiction over such crimes, as well as the problems facing international and domestic courts in suppressing, investigating, and prosecuting transnational criminal activities.	2.53
law-468	    This course will focus on the major legal issues that face the international community in addressing the challenges of climate change and the role of the United Nations, international treaties, and national governments in seeking workable legal solutions. We will also examine ways to mitigate the effects of climate change on communities and peoples across the globe, including Indigenous people. Finally, we will analyze the legal effects of individual and corporate litigation in national courts in North America, South America, India and New Zealand.	2.96
law-470	    This is a survey course of basic doctrines and current issues in jurisprudence and legal theory. Topics include natural law theory, legal positivism, legal realism, feminist legal theory, critical race theory, individual liberty, and international law.	2.65
law-489	    This course is based on a supervised legal research project designed by the student in consultation with a faculty member, and involves 100 hours of research and study. This advanced research project will enable the student to acquire and apply legal knowledge and skills - through critical inquiry, legal research and analysis - to a complex problem in a specific field of the law. Students will learn to critically evaluate and analyse complex legal arguments, apply advanced research methods, and recognize the limits of knowledge and understanding in the law.	2.59
law-498	    Students will be assisted in obtaining a paid practicum placement. Students will participate in the following instructional sessions: rsum and cover letter preparation; interviewing techniques; and practicum search and follow-up. The student will complete a six-month (five full working days per week) paid practicum in a law firm, government law department, corporate law department, or other law-related employment as approved by the practicum instructor. The practicum employer will provide meaningful projects appropriate for an entry-level paralegal designed to encourage personal responsibility, independent problem solving, and the application of high ethical standards. The student must be supervised by a lawyer during the practicum.	2.51
lbst-400	This course explores topics from an interdisciplinary perspective. Drawing on the disciplines traditionally housed in the Arts and Sciences, individual offerings of the course engage in a sustained examination of a range of historical, theoretical and current issues relevant to the selected topic. The course topic will typically correspond with the Liberal Studies term theme - e.g. sustainability, memory, and revolution.	2.84
lbst-401	This course explores contemporary issues from an interdisciplinary perspective. Drawing upon the arts, sciences, and related fields of study, individual offerings of the course will engage in a sustained examination of a range of historical, theoretical and current issues relevant to the selected topic and/or the current Liberal Studies term theme - e.g. sustainability, memory, and revolution.	2.77
eldf-100	This course will provide training in the tools, techniques and procedures suitable to an entry-level position in the lighting department of the mainstream and independent film production industries. The course of instruction will place a special emphasis on the new techniques developed for digital imaging for film and television.	2.01
ling-100	Linguistics is the study of human language and ultimately the human mind.  Linguistics 100 is designed to introduce the field of linguistics and the principles that are involved in the description and analysis of language.  Students will develop an understanding of the core areas of linguistics - morphology (the study of words and their internal structure), phonetics (the description of how sounds are produced), phonology (the study of sound systems), and syntax (the study of phrases and sentences) - by looking at data from various languages around the world.  Special attention will be given to the language backgrounds represented by students in the class, so that we can appreciate both the diversity of language and the principles that are shared by all languages.	2.02
ling-101	This course explores the relationship of language to other systems - social, biological and cognitive. It explores the relationship between language and social systems (socio-linguistics), language change (historical linguistics), first and second language acquisition, language meaning and use (semantics and pragmatics), language typology and the nature of writing systems.	1.94
ling-102	This course is an introduction to articulatory phonetics, a method of describing speech sounds on the basis of how they are produced or articulated. While there will be weekly assigned readings, the focus of the course will be on the development of practical skills in the transcription of English speech sounds. In addition to the reading and transcription drills, the course will also focus on the sound systems of the second languages that members of the class are currently studying.	2.04
ling-200	This course is an introduction to phonology, the study of sound systems. It will focus on two topics, the description and analysis of phonological data and secondly how this analysis is formalized in order to capture generalizations about the sound systems of the languages of the world.	2.25
ling-201	This course is an introduction to the theory of syntactic analysis. It is framed within the Principles and Parameters theory of syntax. Students will learn how to represent a range of structures in tree diagrams and examine the kinds of predictions that these representations make.	2.04
ling-202	This course is an introduction to the origin and structure of English words: the study of etymology. Through an analysis of English vocabulary, we will learn about the history of the English language as well as learn how linguistic analysis works. Students will learn how to distinguish native words from borrowed words, and with borrowed words, learn to recognize the Latin, Greek and French origins of English words.	2.05
ling-206	This course explores the relationship of language to other systems and will focus on the First Nations Languages of B.C. In particular it will explore the relationship between language, culture and social systems within the Salish (Coastal and Interior) language family. An important aspect of the course is to gain an understanding of language and culture from a First Nations perspective. Language endangerment, language policy, and efforts to retain or revive languages will also be discussed.	2.11
ling-208	This course explores the diversity of indigenous languages around the world in the context of language endangerment. We will ask what is lost if a language disappears? We will look at the rich cultural diversity and challenges of Aboriginal Australian, Native American, Pacific and Celtic languages through such topics as language attitudes, language dominance, cross-cultural communications in the sharing of information, respect systems, pidgins and creoles, and human categorization systems.	2.02
padm-200	This course will include discussion of the structures and administration of local governments, as well as current issues in local governance.  Topics include:  the history and purposes of local government; how local governments are organized and administered; their powers and limitations; issues of sustainability; relations with aboriginal government; and issues of public participation such as interest group lobbying and public consultation.	2.05
padm-201	This course will examine the service that municipalities provide to their citizens in British Columbia.  Services to be discussed include:  public works, protective services, including fire and police, regulatory services, water and sewer services, refuse collection and solid waste disposal, recreation and cultural services and environmental protection services.	2.22
padm-202	This course will examine the practices and issues of municipal finance in British Columbia and will include discussion of the Local Government Act as it pertains to financial administration; the role of provincial government in financial administration, the role of the Municipal Finance Authority; the finance function at the Municipal/Regional levels; accounting and financial controls in Municipalities and Regional Districts; the financial planning process including short term budgets and long term financial planning; financing options; general accounting/treasury functions; assessment, taxation, collection.	2.27
padm-203	This course focuses on legal principles pertaining to municipal government and regional governments, with particular emphasis on its status, functions, and legal powers and constraints.  It will also introduce the principles of administrative law, how legislation is created, and the powers and duties of administrative agencies.  Topics covered will include municipal liability, municipal planning law, municipal council and staff legal issues, legislative drafting, basic principles of administrative and constitutional law, and principles of administrative law.	2.03
padm-204	This course provides participants with new information and new research in the field of leadership studies. The format provides many opportunities to learn and practice skills required for effective leaders, the opportunity to learn directly with and from some of the most outstanding leaders in local government in BC, and includes time to look at specific issues faced by individual participants. The course blends theory and practice, with an emphasis on discussion and interaction and participant involvement through role playing and case studies.	2.21
padm-205	The goal of the course is to have British Columbia local government professionals participate in communication skill-based training that will strengthen their individual and team performances.  It is believed that managing change, collaborating and navigating difficult conversations are essential communications competencies that effective local government professionals must demonstrate daily.  This course will assist participants to become more effective in these areas through interactive sessions on resolving conflict, council-staff relations, communicating with diverse populations, negotiating skills, and coaching skills.	2.22
padm-207	This course focuses on organizational success in local government and provides students with the skills and knowledge to carry out their responsibilities as supervisors and managers in British Columbia local governments more effectively.	2.14
padm-208	The goal of the course is to have British Columbia local government professionals participate in community planning skill-based training. This training will assist students to become more knowledgeable and more effective as they carry out and manage the various local government land use planning and development functions they encounter, and for which they are responsible.	2.2
padm-209	The goal of this course is to provide local government professionals with the skills and knowledge that will assist them to more effectively carry out their responsibilities as members of the department of the City Clerk/Corporate officer, and to prepare them for more senior leadership roles in their local government organizations.	2.23
padm-210	This course is designed for new, improving and aspiring managers working in local government organizations in BC. Through this course students will gain foundational knowledge and skills related to managing staff, managing work and managing self to assist them in becoming more effective in their current or future role as a manager in a municipality, regional district or related organization. Course topics and skill areas will include effective interpersonal communications, team leadership, workload planning and management and essential human resource knowledge. This is an interactive course in which students will assess their strengths and areas for improvement, examine best practices effective managers use and apply learning to their work environment.	2.05
padm-305	The goal of this course is to provide local government professionals with the skills and knowledge they need to understand and analyze complex public policy issues and options, and to recommend action to decision makers.  This course will give students the opportunity to understand the key elements of the public policy making process and examine current policy issues, constraints and opportunities in the BC local government context.  The course will help students develop a systematic approach to problem solving and prepare them for more senior leadership roles in their local government organizations.	2.53
padm-306	Local government professionals are involved in multiple projects as part of their everyday workload. These projects cover a wide range of areas and create a specific result, program or service. This course provides students with the skills and knowledge they need to successfully and efficiently manage work projects. Students will learn effective approaches to project planning, project teams and stakeholders, scheduling, time management, budgeting, communication, conflict resolution and project team leadership.	2.47
padm-307	This course examines the role of local government professionals in establishing, applying and maintaining ethical standards, integrity and decorum in public institutional processes and relationships. Current and emerging issues that impact the working environment of the responsible public servant will be discussed. Students will develop problem solving approaches and provide recommendations to resolve identified ethical challenges. This course is intended for students who already have significant knowledge of and experience in local government.	2.41
padm-308	This course provides current and aspiring Chief Administrative Officers (CAOs) with strategies for long term success in this senior executive position. The focus is on management knowledge and skills unique to this role in BC municipalities and regional districts. This course is designed for new CAOs (e.g. three years or less) and aspiring CAOs (e.g. from senior management in local government and the private sector) who seek to advance their knowledge and skills and build a supportive network of colleagues.	2.64
padm-309	Through this course students will gain knowledge and understanding of municipal government administration in British Columbia, including the key services provided and how the community is involved in the process. Topics examined include: governing legislation and structure; the roles and responsibilities of municipal government staff, elected officials and the community; local government service delivery and funding; and relationships with other governments and supporting organizations.  Students will be introduced to key sector challenges such as sustainability, affordable housing, homelessness, alternative transportation and climate change, and develop critical thinking skills while considering local government action on these issues.	2.62
math-097	This course is intended for students who need to improve their algebraic skills in order to prepare for a precalculus course or for a subject area where variables are used to represent unknown quantities. Topics covered include the real number system, exponents, radical expressions, polynomials and rational expressions; solving equations and application problems involving polynomials, rational expressions, and radical expressions; coordinate geometry, systems of equations; solving inequalities.	2.96
math-102	A study of important statistical methods commonly used in the analysis of research data, including t-tests and their non-parametric competitors, one and two-way analysis of variance, chi-square tests and regression analysis.	1.96
math-105	This course is intended for students who anticipate taking calculus or who require a Pre-calculus 12 equivalent course. This is a functions course with a focus on mathematical modelling and practical applications.  Topics include: graphs, properties of functions, inverse functions, polynomial, rational, trigonometry, logarithms and exponential functions.	1.92
math-108	This course is an introduction to the mathematics of change and explores concepts of differential calculus with an emphasis on applications to business, social sciences and life sciences using a technology-based modeling approach. Topics include limits, continuity, the derivative, rules of differentiation, implicit differentiation and applications of differentiation.	1.9
math-109	With an emphasis on applications to business, social sciences and life sciences, this course explores topics in single variable integral calculus, multivariable calculus and differential equations. Topics include the definite integral and applications, integration techniques, multivariable functions, partial derivatives, extrema, Lagrange multipliers, some techniques for solving differential equations.	1.9
math-116	This is a course in Differential Calculus which covers the topics of limits, continuity, the derivative, rules of differentiation, implicit differentiation, parametric curves, related rates, curve sketching, optimization, linear approximations, transcendental functions, indeterminate forms and anti-differentiation. Throughout the course a strong emphasis is placed on the geometric interpretation of the concepts of calculus.	2.06
math-123	This course introduces mathematical and statistical ideas to students interested in improving critical thinking and quantitative skills. With a focus on problem solving, students will explore the beauty and the utility of mathematics while investigating such topics as cultural approaches to mathematics, percentages, interest rates, probability and statistics. As time permits, further topics such as geometry, math in art and music, and recreational mathematics will be explored.	2.02
math-124	A survey of fundamental topics in discrete mathematics including: mathematical proofs using direct arguments, indirect arguments, and induction; the algebra of sets; combinatorics; functions and relations; and graph theory. This course stresses the special role of discrete mathematics in Computing Science.	1.9
math-126	A study of the anti-derivative, the integral, techniques of integration, applications of the integral, differential equations, sequences, infinite series and Taylor's Theorem. Continued emphasis on the geometric interpretation of the concepts of calculus.	1.92
math-139	This course investigates relationships between mathematics and visual art and design. With a focus on problem solving, students will learn the numerical and geometric aspects of the Golden Ratio, one, two and three point linear perspective, tilings, fractals and Frieze patterns. As time permits, a number of other topics may be covered such as the mathematics of M.C. Escher, Latin square puzzles, or Flatland.	1.94
math-190	A study of selected topics in mathematics designed to give future elementary teachers an appreciation of the power, beauty and importance of mathematics. Topics studied include problem solving, number systems, geometry and statistics. This course does not normally count for credit in science programs. It is intended for students who plan on entering an education program for elementary school teachers.	2.1
math-200	An introduction to lines and planes, systems of linear equations and matrices, vector spaces and linear transformations, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, orthogonality and diagonalization. Theorems and proofs are an important component of the course.	2.19
math-204	An introduction to inferential statistical methods.  Confidence intervals, t-tests, chi-square tests, correlation and regression.  The emphasis will be on problem formulation, models, assumptions and interpretation. Regularly scheduled  labs  will introduce course participants to appropriate supporting statistical software.	2.11
math-215	A course for students who plan to proceed in mathematics. Logic, sets, functions, limits of sequences and series; introduction to continuity, the derivative, Riemann Integral.	2.22
math-224	A continuation of the study of discrete mathematics from MATH 124. The emphasis is on combinatorial analysis, including generating functions, set theory and graph theory, with applications to Computing Science including representations, algorithms, and complexity.	2.2
math-230	In this course, students will learn about differential and integral calculus of functions of several variables. They will be introduced to analytical geometry of three or more dimensions, partial differentiation and applications as well as double and triple integrals and transformations to various coordinate systems.	2.1
math-231	Vector calculus; line and surface integrals; Green's Theorem; vector fields; divergence theorem; Stokes's Theorem; applications.	2.15
math-235	An introduction to ordinary differential equations; first order equations; higher order linear differential equations; linear systems; power series techniques; Laplace transform method; the phase plane, applications.	2.1
math-252	An introduction to lines and planes, systems of linear equations and matrices, vector spaces and linear transformations, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization. The theory will be applied to first order linear differential equations, first order linear systems and engineering topics.	2.26
math-300	Mathematics has been used as a tool and as inspiration in the creation of works of music, literature and visual art and can be used in the analysis of these works. Through presentation of the math and examination of case studies, this course uncovers the math both in the forefront and behind the art. Mathematical proofs will also be developed that portray mathematics as a creative art in its own right.	2.66
math-330	Students will study the formation, analysis, and interpretation of mathematical models drawn from the physical, biological, and social sciences. They will study continuous and discrete, deterministic and stochastic models and will use techniques such as differential and difference equations, optimization, simple stochastic processes, and numerical methods.	2.41
math-335	This course is an introduction to the beauty and power of mathematics. Using basic strategies of thought and investigation, the student will explore some interesting and sophisticated ideas in mathematics, including those of numbers, infinity, geometry and fractals.	2.5
math-336	Students will examine and develop discrete models and linear programs as they relate to problems found in the physical, biological and social sciences. This includes shortest paths, matchings, graph colouring and network flows. Students will apply the simplex method and duality theory to find optimal solutions to the associated linear programs.	2.63
math-400	This course introduces a variety of supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms. Students will study methods such as regression and classification, decision trees, naive Bayes, Principal Component Analysis, support vector machines, neural networks, and unsupervised learning methods. A brief introduction to Deep Learning will also be included. Students will gain hands-on experience applying machine learning techniques to real-world data from multiple disciplines such as social sciences, life sciences, physical sciences, economics, education, and engineering.	2.88
mopa-100	This course introduces students to the role and responsibilities of the director and the director's team. Context and examples are supported through short films and an introduction to cinematic language. Guest speakers and mandatory workshops, in addition to weekly classes, support classroom work.	2.03
mopa-102	This course is designed to familiarize students with the operational theory and practical application of the basic camera, lighting, and grip procedures of film and video production.	1.92
mopa-103	This course is designed to familiarize the students with the processes involved in the design, planning, and construction of dramatic motion picture sets.	2.03
mopa-104	This course introduces students to the business practices, economic realities, and decision-making processes employed in the motion picture industry.	1.97
mopa-106	This course presents the fundamentals of the three-act story structure and the screenplay, including the development process from concept to completion, the internal and external structure, and the concepts of story and character arc. Analysis of scripts and short films develops students' skills to recognize the mechanics of story as they apply to narrative conventions. Short scripts developed in this course will be produced in the fall and spring projects.	1.85
mopa-108	This course is designed to introduce students to current digital video and film post-production processes and techniques. It features an analysis of each phase of creative post-production to enhance the students' understanding of post-production work flow.	2.09
mopa-110	The first major supervised project includes development, pre-production, production, and post-production. Mentorship and supervision focus on professionalism and technical competency.	1.87
mopa-115	This course is designed to introduce students to communication, protocol, and entry-level job skills to begin a career in the motion picture industry. Through weekly guest lectures and classes, students are introduced to film industry professionals working in a variety of film crafts. Practical assignments are practical opportunities for students to develop networking skills in the film community for the purposes of employment. Through an applied focus, this course provides students with an understanding of the set etiquette, crew protocol, problem solving, and communication techniques required in the film and television industry.	1.91
mopa-118	This course builds upon and reinforces the knowledge and skills acquired in Technical Directing, Cinematography Foundation and Post-Production in the first semester. The classroom becomes a production office, set, and post-production house, so that students can apply industry standard procedures and protocols for running a successful production from the distribution of a script through delivery. Students collaborate in groups under the direct supervision of instructors to make a two-minute film that follows professional standards and practices; instruction will emphasize the following: scheduling, location scouting, technical surveys, production meetings, blocking, lighting, rehearsing, shooting, post-production workflow, post-production supervision, and production management.	1.91
mopa-120	The second major supervised project includes development, prep, production, and post-production. Students shoot off campus for the first time. Mentorship and supervision focus on professionalism and technical competency.	1.81
mopa-201	This course is designed to explore the director's role in the professional world of film and television production. Special emphasis is placed on technical direction as well as the working relationship with actors, cinematographers, and production designers.	2.25
mopa-202	This course is designed to explore the historical significance of the American and Canadian cinema's creative and technical processes, including the historical precedents that contributed to the evolutionary process of film production from the silent era to the present day. This includes spotlighting a variety of distinctive filmmakers and their individual production methodologies and how their contributions reflect the historical, social, and political contexts that came to define the cinematic culture.	2.3
mopa-206	In this course, students explore the development of narrative ideas, the practical and creative aspects of writing the screenplay, the ability to give and receive criticism, and the ability to articulate an individual artistic identity.	2.06
mopa-207	This mentored interdisciplinary course allows students to practice the application of key technical and creative crafts. Mentored workshops allow students to integrate and apply technical skills into workflow. Prep, production and post-production are determined by students but are closely supervised by faculty. Students are evaluated on individual professionalism, technical competency, and control over aesthetics and content.	2.18
mopa-209	This course builds upon and reinforces the foundation of editing skills and knowledge acquired in the first year of the Bachelor of Motion Picture Arts program.	2.18
mopa-210	The emphasis on the projects in second year reflects industry standards, in terms of protocol and workflow during pre-production, production, post-production, and distribution. Students are expected to apply industry protocol fluently in the following disciplines: writing, directing, producing, production management, location management, editing, cinematography, sound mixing, publicity, and sound design. Several student narrative and documentary projects will be selected by a faculty panel to be produced and delivered by students. Adherence to story structure and comprehensible visual narrative conventions are expected. Students are expected to work collaboratively, effectively, and to a disciplined deadline. Students will be evaluated on individual professionalism, technical competency, and control over aesthetics and content.	2.1
mopa-211	This course is designed to familiarize the students with the historical significance of the cinema's creative and technical processes and their relevance to contemporary film production.  The emphasis will be placed on the Hollywood cinema and its filmmakers' contributions to narrative cinema.	2.26
mopa-213	This course explores the implementation of visual design and production design on film/tv projects. A project entailing application of production design to year 2 student film projects is required.	2.27
mopa-217	This course is designed to build upon the foundation of sound editing and sound recording knowledge acquired in the first year and first semester of the second year of the program. The purpose of this course is to teach the foundation of the principles of sound aesthetics, creating sound, and applying them to the sound edit of a film or video.	2.2
mopa-220	This course teaches the functions and practices of line producers and production managers in the motion picture industry. It develops the processes involved in budgeting, scheduling, and contracts, as well as introduces the appropriate industry software.	2.05
mopa-302	Students explore world film culture through a broad spectrum of countries and regions, reflecting on their unique contributions to the world's film culture. This includes a focus on distinctive artists within the international film community and an exploration of the context in which various historical, political, religious, philosophical, and cultural forces shaped their distinctive contributions to their own film culture, as well as their subsequent influence on Western film culture, which in turn allows an understanding and perspective of global film culture.	2.69
mopa-304	In this course, students advance their application of narrative idea and skill, the practical and creative aspects of writing the screenplay, the ability to give and receive criticism, and the ability to research and articulate their ideas and to express such with individual artistic identity.	2.42
mopa-305	This course provides practical opportunities for students to explore and develop fluency, aesthetic judgment and cinematic voice. Students are expected to integrate content with visual language in order to acquire a range of cinematic technical skills and applications to realize a story visually.	2.54
mopa-306	Students will be provided with practical opportunities to explore and develop techniques of visual storytelling, narrative interpretation, and personal voice. This will include the application of techniques of working with actors to direct and realize an effective screen performance.	2.61
mopa-310	Students are creatively involved in a minimum of three short projects. Students are required to take on two key creative leadership roles related to their concentration: one of producer, writer or director, and one of either cinematographer or editor. Students are evaluated individually on their professionalism, technical competency, aesthetics and content.	2.41
mopa-312	This course is designed to explore the historical significance of the Canadian film industry and its relevance to contemporary film production and the global film community.	2.44
mopa-313	This course explores the expansive possibilities of employing production design to shape a film/tv viewer experience, including the production design ingredients of a coherent 'World Building' effort, as well as the implementation of effective production design in student filmmaking projects.	2.51
mopa-317	This course provides students with the opportunity to enhance and expand their sound editing and mixing skills. By applying practical skills to the delivery of an affective surround sound mix, students will gain a deeper understanding of how sound shapes, influences, and determines the emotional and sensory intensity of a film.	2.6
mopa-319	Students will assess and apply advanced techniques of market analysis, distribution and entrepreneurship to a variety of filmed entertainment, including the components necessary to the development of student film projects.	2.47
mopa-325	This course will teach advanced editing work flows in conjunction with Sound Design, Colour Correction and Visual Effects. Students will learn to use advanced industry-standard software for Editing, Sound Design, Colour Correction and Motion Graphics. Classroom lectures and discussion will encourage analysis of more complex Post Production Work flows and how they incorporate other Departments, including application to student spring projects.	2.41
mopa-327	Through case studies, readings, field research and leading experts, students will examine and formulate best practices for ethical producing in an ever-changing and increasingly complex media landscape.	2.57
mopa-332	Media producers must be innovative in their approach to the marketing, promotion and distribution of their projects in today's multiplatform universe. Through case studies and market trend analysis, students will learn to critically evaluate and assess current and emerging distribution pathways for maximum sales and social impact.	2.41
mopa-335	Business Affairs for media is a critical administrative role that supports the media content producer. Students will examine and apply the various rules and regulations that inform this unique business environment in order to formulate a comprehensive and practical overview of entertainment business affairs practices in Canada.	2.59
mopa-409	This course provides a culminating academic and intellectual experience that incorporates aesthetics, critical theory, film theory and media language. Each week is comprised of a lecture, which focuses on the academic aspects of visual theory, particularly film theory, and a seminar, which involves the practical demonstration, discussion and oral presentation of themes and concepts. There are weekly reading and writing assignments, as well as a weekly filmed exercise where student teams demonstrate their accumulated technical skills to explore their understanding of visual theory. Students will also be assigned two research projects which will connect theory, practice and media literacy to community and global issues and problems.	2.98
mopa-410	This course explores the art and practice of filmed dramatic entertainment. It is designed to provide mentored hands-on experience in the artistic disciplines as well as the industrial practices of film and video production. Each student produces a short, episode, proof of concept, teaser, script, business plan or further written and/or visual materials in support of their Development Project. Although there is faculty supervision on all four-hundred level projects, students are expected to develop and produce work independently. Depending on the nature of the project, students may work alone or in creative teams.	2.76
mopa-416	This course provides context and guidance for students in terms of their professional development, including their placement in MOPA 430 Practicum and their contribution to the MOPA 410 Project #5, by mastering and applying their personal and professional skills to develop a critical path into industry.	2.51
mopa-417	This course will focus on an iterative workflow where sound editing and mixing skills are advanced through application with dialogue, music and sound stems in a surround sound context.	2.78
mopa-425	This course focuses on the preparation and development of the spring semester project (MOPA 410 Project #5) in relation to 'Concept, Communication, Creativity and Context'. Students will prepare the creative elements of a script development submission package for the spring project, which will include a consideration of their project in the context of social responsibility, community awareness, and audience impact.	2.69
mopa-426	Students will have the opportunity to expand and explore their filmmaking skills in an interdisciplinary environment through intensive, practical experience. Students will choose from three options: 1) Technical project or 2) Performance project or 3) Creative project. All three options extend the development of specific filmmaking skills as defined by but not limited to the primary disciplines of Directing, Screenwriting, Producing, Editing and Cinematography, as well as interdisciplinary skills as found in Costuming, VFX, 2D and 3D Animation, and Acting. The projects offered in any given semester will be based on student demand.	2.99
mopa-428	This course is for the emerging career producer. The student will combine several skill sets that will enable them to analyze and apply producing knowledge in an industry setting. With a meaningful employment strategy in place, the student will complete a research project to accelerate their professional development in the media industry.	2.76
mopa-430	All students are required to do a practicum in their fourth year. Practicum students are required to meet with a faculty supervisor for consultation. The consultation is intended to determine an appropriate placement, the terms of placement, and to establish the evaluation criteria. Students are required to write a detailed summary of their practicum and will receive written evaluation from their practicum host and faculty supervisor at the end of the practicum.	2.69
mus-100	    This course is designed to provide the student with an understanding of the basic principles of musical organization and harmonic practice in tonal music of the common-practice era.	1.83
mus-101	    This course is a continuation of MUS 100 and is intended to provide a more in-depth study of musical organization and harmonic practice in tonal music of the common-practice era.	2.05
mus-108	    This is a music appreciation course for students who are curious about classical music and would like to learn more about how to listen to it. No previous musical knowledge is necessary. The tools of how music is put together will be introduced and discussed through listening to a wide variety of pieces from the medieval period, the Renaissance, the Baroque, the Classic and Romantic periods, and the twentieth century. Students will discover how various composers use elements of style and form to create music that expresses their individual voice as well as the culture in which they live. Emphasis will be placed on the cultural and historical context of each piece.	1.93
mus-109	    This course encompasses a comprehensive overview of the rudiments of music and provides an understanding of how those elements are combined to create the various styles and genres of Western art music from Medieval times to the 20th Century. Previous experience reading music is an asset to this course but not essential.	2.1
mus-112	    This course develops sight-reading skills and aural perception of tonality, with specific reference to seventeenth and eighteenth-century repertoire, in support of MUS 100 and 120.	1.85
mus-113	    This course develops sight-reading skills and aural perception of tonality, with specific reference to seventeenth and eighteenth-century repertoire, in support of MUS 100 and 120.	2.1
mus-114	    This course is designed to equip musicians whose performance medium is not a keyboard instrument with basic keyboard skills so they may utilize the instrument as a resource tool.	1.97
mus-115	    This course is designed to refine and augment those skills and techniques learned in MUS 114 so as to further equip musicians whose performance medium is not a keyboard instrument.	1.92
mus-120	    This course introduces musical concepts of organization, such as rhythm, pitch, structure, form and style, and applies knowledge of these concepts in analytical exercises. These concepts of musical structure are used to trace the development of art music from ancient times to the end of the Classic Period. The course then examines representative music of the Medieval period with respect to style and form, examining the historical framework in which this music was composed, and providing the student with the necessary tools to express this knowledge.	1.91
mus-121	    This course examines representative music from the Renaissance and Baroque periods with respect to style and form, examining the historical framework in which this music was composed, and providing the student with the necessary tools to express this knowledge.	1.94
mus-122	    This course explores the application of the principles of lyric diction in Italian and German through the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).	1.94
mus-123	    This course explores the application of the principles of lyric diction in English and French through the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).	2.03
mus-124	    The goal of this course is to introduce Musical Theatre students to the preliminary rudiments of music and to provide them with knowledge of basic ear training, theory and sight singing skills.	1.82
mus-125	    The goal of this course is to work towards developing skills which allow the student to reproduce printed melody and rhythm through aural and vocal exercises and to develop piano skills to assist in repertoire preparation.	1.8
mus-200	    This course develops a richer understanding of tonal harmony both in terms of its local relationships (chord-to-chord connections) and its longer-range behaviour over the course of a musical phrase, section or entire composition. The course is designed to link theoretical understanding to aural appreciation, and to enhance the students' enjoyment of the music history curriculum through detailed study of the same repertoire wherever possible. As well, the course offers tools for learning and memorizing repertoire, in support of the students' performance studies.	2.18
mus-201	    This course helps students to continue to develop a richer understanding of tonal harmony and its role in generating and articulating musical forms. Emphasis will be placed upon recognizing the relationship between linear motion and tonal harmonic progression, particularly as found in nineteenth-century music. Like MUS 200, the course is designed to link theoretical understanding to aural appreciation, and to enhance the students' enjoyment of the music history curriculum through detailed study of the same repertoire wherever possible. As well, the course offers tools for learning and memorizing repertoire, in support of the students' performance studies.	2.3
mus-210	    This course is a practical study of the woodwind family.	2.23
mus-211	    This course is a continuation of MUS 210.	2.19
mus-212	    This course develops sight-reading skills and aural perception of tonality, with specific reference to the eighteenth and nineteenth-century repertoire in support of MUS 200 and 220.	2.13
mus-213	    This course develops sight-reading skills and aural perception of tonality, with specific reference to later nineteenth-century repertoire, in support of MUS 201 and 221.	2.19
mus-214	    This course is designed to refine and augment those skills and techniques learned in MUS 115 so as to further equip musicians whose performance medium is not a keyboard instrument.	2.01
mus-215	    This course is designed to refine and augment those skills and techniques learned in MUS 214 so as to further equip musicians whose performance medium is not a keyboard instrument.	2.17
mus-218	    This course is a practical study of the brass family.	2.13
mus-219	    This course is a practical study of the percussion family.	2.15
mus-220	    This course provides students with a knowledge of the music of the classic and early romantic periods with respect to musical styles and form, and provides students with the necessary tools to express this knowledge.	2.1
mus-221	    This course provides students with a knowledge of the music of the late romantic period and the twentieth century with respect to musical styles and form and provides students with the necessary tools to express this knowledge.	2.05
mus-361	    This course provides a knowledge of Orff methodology and the skills necessary to use this teaching method in a classroom.	2.61
mt-320	    This course is an introduction to improvisation from a music therapy context. Students will explore their relationship to music, themselves, and others using improvisation. This course offers students an experiential journey through sound-making, organized and free flow improvisation, and the application of improvisation styles and techniques with a variety of populations.	2.68
mt-321	    This course builds upon previous skills gained in improvisation courses. It continues to develop facilitation competence using group and dyadic improvisation techniques. Students will develop confidence in their ability to design, facilitate, and assess group improvisation and its appropriate therapeutic applications with children and older adults in health care settings. Active participation, observation, and giving and receiving constructive feedback in a shared and respectful environment is an expectation for this course. Students should be aware there may be heightened emotional responses in some of the musical experiences.	2.44
mt-330	    This course is an introduction to applied music therapy skills in a clinical setting with a focus on the elderly in residential care, including group leading, using therapeutic programs, using music in therapy, and learning repertoire with an emphasis on the guitar and singing. This course will include field trips to clinical settings to observe music therapists working with the elderly. The course includes an introduction to ethics, observation and documentation techniques, goals and objectives, and developing activities that can be used in group context.	2.48
mt-350	    This course examines the influence of music on lived experience, introducing the therapeutic potential of music to influence human wellness. Exploring relationships between music and various facets of life, the course explores current social justice topics and systemic inequities from a music therapy perspective. Students will learn from current music therapy research, client case examples, in-class activities, group discussions, and self-reflexive practices.	2.52
mt-360	    This course is an introduction to the development of music therapy, including the history of the profession globally, in Canada, and at Capilano University. Readings and discussion will discuss traditional schools of therapy, pioneers, and current practitioners. Readings and discussion of clinical work with older adults will introduce theoretical constructs, applied models, person-centered approaches, and issues of relevance. To deepen understanding of the values, practices, challenges and ethics of therapy, students reflect on their life experience as it relates to material in this course.	2.45
mt-361	    This course presents three music therapy styles across the lifespan with a focus on theory, analysis, and practice. Included are Developmental Music Therapy, Nordoff/Robbins improvisational style, and the use of music therapy in in-patient psychotherapy. Students will expand their knowledge of the music therapy literature, critically examine different techniques presented, continue to identify personal and clinical implications of the techniques presented, expand skills in instrumental improvisation, expand music therapy skills in individual and group settings with children in educational settings and adult inpatient psychiatry, and understand and explore their own mental health issues in relationship to practice.	2.65
mt-364	    This course is an introduction to fundamental principles of pathophysiology for selected geriatric conditions. At the end of this course, students will understand the social, physiological and emotional effects of common health conditions of adults and be aware of the therapeutic needs of clients and patients. Students will be able to communicate effectively with clients, family members and the health team using appropriate medical terminology.	2.66
mt-370	    This course prepares students to work with a variety of children in a music therapy context, with an emphasis on the psycho-social nature of diseases and disabilities. Students will expand their medical knowledge of a variety of conditions with a focus on Autism Spectrum Disorder, including music therapy techniques and approaches for working with children on this spectrum. Students will also broaden their understanding of family systems when a child has a disease or disability.	2.57
mt-380	    This course is an introduction to verbal counselling techniques. Students will develop basic counselling techniques, examine their relationship and interpersonal skills, work through models of communication, and improve feedback and confrontation skills. Students will explore attending behaviour, paraphrasing, empathy, transference and countertransference through readings, classroom discussion and in-class role-plays.	2.48
mt-391	    In the first practicum course, students have opportunities to develop music therapy clinical skills by participating in a weekly practicum day for twelve weeks with seniors in residential care. Each student will have an on-site music therapist supervisor as well as a faculty supervisor who will offer instruction and supervision on all aspects of session planning, leadership, documentation, group process, and the use of music for therapeutic purposes, institutional systems, and teamwork. Students will develop clinical skills of observation, assessment, goal and objective writing and documentation of their clinical work through submission of weekly reports. Critical thinking and personal reflectivity are integral to practicum success. Students discuss, brainstorm, and share with each other in a weekly class seminar.	2.4
mt-420	    This improvisation course explores the value and growth potential of participating in improvised song-based community music therapy groups. Through readings and in-class experiences, relevance, counterindications, and adaptations will be explored and considered. Students will research and share popular music styles as they gain competence in playing electronic instruments and facilitating group music therapy processes.	2.74
mt-450	    This course focuses on lecture and experiential exposure toward integrating creative arts therapies approaches into music therapy practice. Through methods such as poetry, dance, autobiography, art, and drama, students explore and adapt creative arts methods for various clinical settings. An emphasis is made on understanding and articulating the rationale and methods, including evidence-based practice, for implementing the arts with an emphasis on process level interventions.	2.59
mt-451	    This course emphasizes creativity and self-expression skills and development across a range of expressive arts areas with an emphasis on verbal and nonverbal processing skills through a psychoanalytic lens. Students are expected to display competence in leadership skills, debriefing (analysis and processing) skills, self-awareness, and critical thinking. This course aims to augment clinical skills while maintaining a process-oriented focus. The premise is that art and its modes of expression are a way to explore and support psychological transformation through the connection between creativity and health.	2.77
mt-460	    This course begins with assessment forms for music therapy settings with an emphasis on mental health. This is followed by fundamentals in the use of music therapy methods such as Analytical Music Therapy, resource-oriented music therapy, and trauma-informed practice with both higher functioning and acute care psychiatric populations to develop a deeper understanding and application of process-oriented music therapy methods in trauma and mental health work. Students develop repertoire pertinent to mental health settings, continue to identify personal resources and values in order to develop their own styles of working, actively participating in class activities to examine their impact. The practice of MusicMedicine is introduced, including identification of psychosocial and physical needs found in medical settings. Music therapy research and protocols are examined.	2.65
mt-461	    The first part of this course covers a broad range of professional development topics that prepare students for pre-professional practicum, including resumes, cover letters, interviewing, proposals, in-services, self-employment and entrepreneurialism, professional identity, marketing and ethics. The second part of the course covers advanced verbal counselling techniques, including grief and loss, helping clients change behaviours, safe and effective use of self, boundaries, effective use of transference and countertransference, and crisis management. Music Therapy and verbal counselling are bridged in this course in a way that deepens the student's therapist identity.	2.95
mt-462	    Students in this course will learn a variety of quantitative and qualitative methods of research and of analysis, and to understand the limits of interpretations based on such research and analysis. Students will be able to use and understand both qualitative and quantitative research methods, statistical analysis, and qualitative analysis, be able to conduct, analyze and present basic research, and use critical thinking in assessing the effectiveness and limitations of research.	2.51
mt-480	    This improvisation course focuses on group work, examining the potential benefits and challenges of eliciting, supporting and guiding individual expression and reflection within groups. There is an integration and extension of all previous improvisation course material and practicum experience. In addition, during this term students bring their practicum experiences of working with clients who have intense psychosocial challenges to reflect on the importance of choosing goals and facilitation approaches for safe and meaningful improvisational group experiences. Each activity in this class is examined for personal and clinical relevance, with consideration of contraindications and potential adaptations for specific clientele.	2.97
mt-490	    This practicum course is focused on working with children and youth. Previous course material related to children is reviewed and integrated in this practicum, including normal child development and a range of clinical conditions found in children, and Developmental Music Therapy, Creative Music Therapy and Burke's MakeMusic approach. Students also reflect on their personal experiences of childhood and of working with children before entering the program, to assist them in creating their own unique therapeutic approaches and to heighten their awareness of their own and their clients' transference. Weekly seminars develop therapeutic awareness and clear written and interpersonal communication, and always include collegial sharing of effective approaches and clinical challenges and reflection.	2.64
mt-491	    This is the final course in the series designed to introduce and orient students to a variety of treatment settings over two years and prior to pre-professional practicum. Under a clinical supervisor, students partake in a graduated process beginning with observation and culminating in their assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation of their music therapy programs in a practicum setting. In this course, students translate knowledge from other courses to develop skills in professional practice, teamwork, effective music therapy/clinical competence.	2.65
mt-511	    The pre-professional practicum course is the culmination of this music therapy education program. This course is designed to give students an extended clinical experience, preparing them to be professional music therapists. It is a time for the student to apply, integrate and solidify their knowledge and skills in music therapy under the supervision of a music therapist, and to develop their competence with a specific clinical population. Students become an integral part of a treatment team in terms of assessment, planning, facilitation of therapeutic process, documentation and professional teamwork. By the end of the course, the student is expected to be working as a full professional.	3.08
muth-116	An introduction to the musical theatre repertoire and the singing, dancing and acting skills necessary for performance.	1.92
muth-117	Students will continue the exploration of the Musical Theatre repertoire that was begun in MUTH 116. This course emphasizes vocal skills and presentation, with an element of dance and choreography.	1.91
muth-127	This course will survey the roots of musical theatre, from theatre's origins through to the modern American musical. Highlighted theatrical developments will be explored in the context of historical, political, social, and/or cultural themes.	2.03
muth-170	This course is designed to teach the basic techniques of ballet, jazz and tap through a series of exercises and choreographed numbers.	2.0
muth-171	This course is a continuation of MUTH 170 with more emphasis on the integration of performance techniques.	1.92
muth-208	This course acknowledges the theatre skills which are learned during practical work on productions. Students in the Musical Theatre program will take part in a concert style production of a musical, performed in the Arbutus Studio at the end of term.	2.01
muth-209	This course acknowledges the theatre skills which are learned during practical work on productions. This practical application of the techniques learned throughout the previous terms will culminate in a production. Students will prepare a cabaret show consisting of five songs with patter, which will be performed at the end of term in the Arbutus Studio Theatre.	2.23
muth-210	An introduction to the acting techniques and technical skills needed to perform on camera.	2.09
muth-211	A continuation of MUTH 210.	2.28
muth-216	A continuation of the exploration of musical theatre repertoire. Styles may include Operetta, Golden Age, Pop/Rock, or Contemporary and will be explored using the physical and vocal styles required for this type of performance.	2.01
muth-217	A continuation of the exploration of musical theatre repertoire, with an emphasis on more complicated techniques. Styles may include Operetta, Golden Age, Pop/Rock, or Contemporary and will be explored using the physical and vocal styles required for this type of performance.	2.22
muth-270	The goal of this course is to continue to learn and expand the techniques begun in Dance I and II and to move into more complicated and varied styles and combinations.	2.08
muth-271	In this course the student will continue to learn and expand the dance techniques begun in Dance I, II, and III. Basic choreography building skills will also be introduced.	2.26
muth-302	This capstone course prepares students for the Graduation Showcase, which is a culmination of their training to date. The final performance will serve as an introduction to professional industry members and will provide students with an opportunity to start their careers.	2.46
muth-308	This course consists of two components: a Play Project and a Choreography/Dance Project. Musical Theatre students will take part in both which will include a final performance(s).	2.62
muth-309	This course acknowledges the acting skills which are learned during rehearsals and practical work on theatre productions. Musical Theatre students will take part in a fully realized stage production.	2.44
muth-310	An advanced acting course required for work on the stage and in front of the camera. Students will experience studio training and projects which are designed to improve their technique in stage and screen acting. Embodiment, presence, specificity and authenticity are considered to be key terms in the evaluation of this work.	2.5
muth-316	Continued exploration of more complex musical theatre repertoire, with an emphasis on advanced technique in acting, singing and dancing. Students will add a variety of songs to their expanding repertoire and will perform them in master class format. Students may perform at a variety of events in the outside community to increase their personal and social responsibility through civic engagement.	2.53
muth-317	To continue the exploration of Musical Theatre repertoire from MUTH 316, with an emphasis on advanced technique, harmonies and choreography. Students will add different styles of music to their expanding repertoire, and will continue to build upon their audition book. At the end of the term, students will showcase their solo repertoire and their ensemble choreography in a public setting in order to allow theatre professionals to view their work. This term end performance will form part of their final mark.	2.62
muth-318	This course will further the development of general vocal skills and advanced musicianship. Students will review and improve upon their ensemble skills, sight reading and advanced harmony. In addition to the ensemble study, students will work on musical expectations of an audition: sight reading of solo repertoire, and small ensemble (quartet/sextet).	2.52
muth-319	Musical Theatre students will further develop their solo vocal performance skills in both live and recorded content through voice over, animation, contemporary music and musical theatre styles.	2.66
muth-320	Students will experience studio training and projects which are designed to improve alignment, breath capacity, vocal power, articulation and the exploration of various dialects. Embodiment, presence, specificity and authenticity are considered to be key terms in the evaluation of this work.	2.42
muth-370	This course will enable Musical Theatre students to continue the progress of their skill development in dance. Students will explore industry ready techniques including preparing for vigorous dance rehearsals and performances. More audition experiences in a wide variety of styles/genres and formats will also be included.	2.7
muth-371	This course is a continuation of MUTH 370, and will enable Musical Theatre students to further continue their skill development to a more advanced level. Students will practice and integrate industry ready techniques in preparation for intensive rehearsals, performances and auditions.	2.54
nabu-310	Students will develop an understanding of business law concepts and practices in North America with a focus on the Canadian context. Students will gain exposure to additional legal topics such as how corporations work, negligence, contracts, secured and unsecured lending, mortgages, employment, and bankruptcy.	2.7
nabu-318	This course provides participants with the skills necessary for effective project management in local and international environments. The content includes concepts and solutions that support the planning, scheduling, controlling, resource allocation and risk management required for successful completion of a project in different business sectors. The students will have the opportunity to apply the learned theories in practice by using real case studies and projects and interacting with experienced project managers from various industries.	2.64
nabu-320	The course will focus on finance and accounting concepts and tools to enable students to deal with financial elements of the business in terms of planning and controlling financial operations and using financial information to evaluate business effectiveness.	2.63
nabu-330	The course is designed to provide students with an overall appreciation and insight into the cross border similarities and differences in the application of current human resource management approaches in North American organizations. In smaller organizations there often isn't an official Human Resource Department however, H.R. skills are critical to successful business practices in North America.	2.6
nabu-334	This course is designed to provide students with knowledge and skills in cross-cultural leadership and management, cross-cultural ethics, conflict, and negotiation. Students will be able to apply this knowledge and the accompanying skill sets to successful management in a variety of moderate to complex situations.	2.66
nabu-335	This is a unique course that bridges the interdisciplinary skills of Law and Communications. The course will be jointly taught by faculty from Law and Communications. Students will develop an understanding of commercial law concepts and practices in North America with a focus on Canadian context while learning to write accurate sentences that effectively convey appropriate tone and style.	2.44
nabu-340	This course will enable individuals to make better business decisions through the application of financial analysis tools for budgeting, forecasting and decision-making and giving students an increased understanding of how these concepts can be used in measurement, evaluation and decision-making. In groups, the students will analyze and report on the financial performance of a publicly traded corporation.	2.41
nabu-366	This course prepares students to make effective, winning sales presentations within the Human Resources environment. This includes a focus on interpersonal skill development, building self-confidence, and developing personal selling strategies. Students will prepare for Human Resources based case competitions which will build knowledge, teamwork, sales, empathy and understanding. The art of making effective presentations is a critical factor in the strategic planning process and in the successful management of common business issues.	2.57
nabu-390	This course provides tools and strategies to prepare students to research, apply for, secure and successfully complete a 450 hour non-paid, full time North American practicum work placement. Students assess themselves, survey the B.C. job market and articulate their competitive advantages. Students learn the fundamentals of the North American workplace. The course supports students in the processes of finding and completing a challenging and rewarding practicum position that is in alignment with his/her personal and professional career goals.	2.65
nabu-404	This course provides an introduction to Strategic Management. Students apply strategic management theories and investigate how organizations in North America function. The course includes traditional topics of Strategic Management: vision, mission, values and goal setting, analysis of internal and external environments, SWOT analysis and strategy decisions making, implementation and assessment.	2.86
nabu-470	The primary course objective is to acquaint students with the process of developing a business strategy and how to implement that strategy while diverse international business practices are compared. Students must be able to integrate the knowledge and skills they have learned in other NABU courses in areas such as leadership, cross-cultural topics, project management, cross-border HR, North American law and finance, etc.	2.61
nabu-480	This course provides tools and strategies to prepare students to research, apply for, secure and successfully complete an 8 week non paid, full time Canadian practicum work placement. Students assess themselves, survey the B.C. job market and articulate their competitive advantages. The course supports students in the processes of finding and completing a challenging and rewarding practicum position that is in alignment with his/her personal and professional career goals.	2.96
nabu-490	This course is designed to assist students in completing an applied practicum. The purpose is to provide international students with an opportunity to gain work experience that will enhance and complement their academic learning. This experience provides a hands-on opportunity to integrate and apply business skills and knowledge from their courses into the job experience. The student, in consultation with the instructor, is responsible for obtaining his or her own applied practicum.	2.5
rec-111	    This course provides an overview of the commercial outdoor recreation industry within the context of the overall tourism industry. Students examine the relationship between outdoor recreation and the other tourism sectors, including the economic, environmental, cultural and social impact of outdoor recreation in the tourism industry. This course is designed to immerse students in a variety of evolving issues and trends that impact the industry including Indigenous tourism, technology and community-based tourism.	2.01
rec-115	    This course introduces students to the natural environment of British Columbia in the context of commercial outdoor recreation. Students interpret the physical landscape and weather systems of British Columbia in a manner appropriate to wilderness guiding or other commercial outdoor recreation settings. The course includes geology, hydrology, oceanography, glaciology, and atmospheric science with a focus on interpreting weather. This course includes an overnight field trip.	2.09
rec-121	    This course is an introduction to sustainable singletrack trail development. Students will honor the traditional territories by being introduced to the customs, traditions and wisdom of the local Indigenous people. Students will study the foundation levels and basic forces and relationships affecting the overall trail experience. A focus of the course is on safety, both for trail workers and trail users. Students will learn how to properly handle tools required for trail and technical building and maintenance. Throughout the course students will be working on restoring a section trail. Through this experiential learning, students will learn to work with their local trail group(s) while being introduced to singletrack trail building techniques such as the removal of invasive species, bench cutting, water management, armoring, bridge building and technical trail features.	1.87
rec-148	    This course provides an overview of the field skills for the developing outdoor leader. Students are introduced to wilderness travel, outdoor living, navigation, environmental ethics, and leadership. This course is the foundation from which all other skills courses will build. Students will develop skills for planning and managing hiking activities to lead a one-day trip into basic hiking terrain. Successful students will earn the Outdoor Council of Canada Field Leader (Hiking) Certification.	2.01
rec-152	    This course aims to engage the student with a number of global dilemmas and issues. The relationship between individuals, society and the natural world is examined. It incorporates the central concepts of sustainability in our day-to-day lives. Students will gain a deeper appreciation for their interconnectedness to the Earth both as consumer and citizen.	1.81
rec-156	    Students develop skills to interpret the natural environment of Southwest British Columbia through the application of the principles and concepts of ecology, the identification of flora and fauna, and the interpretation of local ecosystems. A key goal of the course is to increase your awareness, appreciation and curiosity about nature in the field so that your outdoor leadership and guiding skills are enhanced. Contemporary stewardship issues including habitat protection and biodiversity facing Southwest British Columbia are highlighted. The importance of Indigenous knowledge and perspectives is embedded throughout the course content.	1.98
rec-163	    An introductory course in first aid skills pertaining specifically to the wilderness environment.	2.06
rec-191	    This course will provide career counselling such as job search coaching, feedback, tips, tools and techniques for outdoor recreation educational and career development through one-on-one meetings, class workshops, industry forums, and networking opportunities. Course work will focus on defining and developing skills necessary for the job search process. The course will provide tools and strategies to prepare students to research, apply for, and secure an appropriate placement in the outdoor recreation industry. Confidence in interview skills and presentation skills will be strengthened through workshop activities. Students will develop a personal career plan to help in identifying workplace opportunities consistent with defined career and educational goals.	1.8
rec-221	    This course is an overview of sustainable design and relationships required to successfully construct and maintain authorized singletrack trails. Students will incorporate the customs, traditions, wisdom and environmental practices of the local Indigenous people in the trail design process. Students will learn about the recreation opportunity spectrum (ROS) and the design of trail networks for all. Students will be introduced to concepts of trail management and development such as authorized trail process, risk management plans, volunteer strategies, materials lists, budgets and signage plans. One of the main focuses of the course is about managing relationships required to gain approval and acceptance of trails. This includes building and fostering relationships with Indigenous groups, local trail associations and all levels of government. Students will put their learning into practice by planning, designing and building a section of trail.	2.08
rec-222	    This course is designed to increase the students' understanding of experiential and transformational leadership, and to help build the skills required to be effective outdoor educators and leaders. Students will develop experiential educational techniques and skills, to lead outdoor education and instructional programs. The course will provide a set of engaged, hands-on experiences for exploring and mastering the capabilities for effective individual and team leadership. Students will improve their capacities to think strategically, communicate effectively, and act decisively as a leader.	2.23
rec-225	    This course familiarizes students with developing, owning and operating their own businesses in tourism and outdoor recreation. Students will be introduced to entrepreneurship concepts, principles and processes as they apply specifically to the tourism industry. Students will gain an understanding of the business planning process by generating innovative ideas for small to medium sized tourism enterprises, evaluating those ideas, preparing formal business plans, and pitching their plans to the class.	2.26
rec-252	    In a world that is becoming more focused on environmental and social issues this course empowers students to develop skills to be change	2.26
rec-260	    The student co-op work experience is designed to provide a period of full-time, productive, paid employment in the field of outdoor recreation. The co-op work experience enables the student to apply classroom theory and skills to employment practices. It provides the student, faculty, and the employer with a measuring device for assessing the student's approach to full-time employment.	2.09
rec-263	    This extensive second level course includes patient assessment and extended first aid care, communication, oxygen therapy, and commercial splints.	2.29
phil-101	An introduction to both ethical theory and applied ethics. The emphasis of the course varies among instructors, with all focusing to some extent on improving moral reasoning. The course covers the following issues:  (a) What makes right actions right and wrong actions wrong? Utilitarianism, Kantianism, and virtue ethics are usually considered.  (b) Why should I be moral, rather than merely self-interested?  (c) In what sense, if any, are moral values objective?  (d) If any of the following are wrong, what makes them wrong: private wealth, deception, capital punishment, euthanasia, assisted-suicide, meat-eating, abortion, cloning, polygamy, etc?  (e) What are our moral obligations to children, the frail and elderly, future generations, and other species?	1.84
phil-102	An introduction to the part of philosophy concerned with questions about the ultimate nature of the world we live in and our knowledge of it (traditionally called Metaphysics and Epistemology). The issues discussed include: the existence and nature of God, the place of human beings in the universe, the nature of reality, human nature, human knowledge and skepticism, freedom and determinism, and the relationship between mind and body. The emphasis of the course varies from instructor to instructor.	1.93
phil-105	The events of contemporary life often raise significant ethical, epistemic, metaphysical, or political problems, which philosophy can help us to better understand and address. This introductory philosophy course applies philosophical thinking to issues arising from current events. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but will aim to reflect issues at the forefront of public discourse. These may include topics such as the ethical and epistemic consequences of technological changes, the aesthetic or political dimensions of art and artists, the politics of identity and identifying, the rise of internet trolls, cancel culture, populism, and the return of fascism.	1.86
phil-110	This course is an introduction to critical reasoning. Students acquire the tools and concepts needed to analyze and evaluate arguments encountered in everyday life, and in the more technical contexts of their further academic studies. They learn how to recognize arguments by type, and to reconstruct them clearly and fairly in order to assess their rational strength. The sorts of topics covered include the analysis of common fallacies, the resolution of ambiguities, deductive validity and varieties of inductive support, probabilistic reasoning, decision theory, inductive generalization, causal reasoning, and hypothesis confirmation. The course will be of benefit to all students who want to develop their logical skills.	2.08
phil-117	What is religion? Is spirituality distinct from religion, and is either important for human flourishing or morality? Are there any good reasons for believing in God? Is there a conflict between faith and reason, or between religion and science? This course examines these and many other philosophical issues concerning religion and spirituality, including the nature of religious language, of religious experience, and the problem of religious pluralism. While this course considers central arguments for and against theism - a central tenet of Abrahamic religions - it addresses religion in all its variety and is relevant and open to all, with or without religious faith.	1.86
phil-120	This course focuses attention on the analysis and evaluation of inductive arguments.  We begin by exploring the basic principles of inductive reasoning and then utilize these principles to explore such topics as rational decision making, the nature and testing of scientific theories in both the natural and social sciences and the difference between causal relations and correlations.  Attention will also be given to the fallacies involved in the appeal to polls and statistics.	1.94
phil-150	Through this course, students will be introduced to the most influential Western philosophers of the Ancient and Medieval eras. The focus will be the metaphysics and epistemology of Plato and Aristotle but with significant attention paid to those who came before and after, especially the pre-Socratic philosophers, Socrates, Augustine, and Aquinas. Coverage may vary from instructor to instructor and may include the writing of others who either influenced or were influenced by these philosophers.	1.84
phil-151	Through this course, students will be introduced to the most influential Western philosophers of the Modern era. The focus will be the metaphysics and epistemology of philosophers in both the Rationalist and Empiricist traditions - philosophers like Rene Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, John Locke, George Berkeley, Gottfried Leibniz, David Hume, and Immanuel Kant. Coverage may vary from instructor to instructor and may include the writing of philosophers bookending this core group.	1.96
phil-200	This course surveys major political theories in the Western tradition. It introduces students to the principal issues in political philosophy by looking at the writings of some of history's most important philosophers, possibly including Plato, Aristotle, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Mill, and Marx. The general question addressed is: How should society be organized? In considering answers to this question we investigate the grounds for political and social structures like the state, government, laws, property, and principles of justice.	2.14
phil-201	This course adopts a problems and issues approach to political philosophy. Rather than focusing on particular philosophers in the history of political thought (as in PHIL 200), we consider answers to some of the most pressing questions facing political theorists. Topics addressed might include: the justification of authority; the value and limits of rights; liberty and equality; the advantages and disadvantages of democracy; the nature and scope of justice; and nationalism and globalization. A contemporary perspective will be emphasized.	2.21
phil-202	Formal logic is concerned with the fundamental nature of thought and reasoning. Its focus is not the meanings of sentences and arguments, but their underlying structure. In this introductory course students will learn how to symbolize and evaluate deductive arguments using the artificial and precise languages of sentential and predicate logic. The course will be of interest to anyone who wants to sharpen their logical skills and who enjoys analysis and problem-solving. The symbolization and techniques learned in the course have a valuable application beyond philosophy, to any kind of formal and systematic enquiry. No mathematical background is required to do well in this course.	2.11
phil-206	This course is an introduction to contemporary philosophical thinking on ethical issues in the professions and other related work contexts. Among the topics to be addresses are the nature of the professions, general professional responsibilities, truth-telling and deception, privacy and confidentiality, professional integrity and loyalty, whistle-blowing, conflicts of interest, social responsibility, and self- and government regulation.	2.16
phil-207	This course is an introduction to contemporary philosophical thinking on ethical issues in business. It covers such topics as the power of multinational corporations, bribery and extortion in international business, the ethics of hiring practices, advertising and behaviour control, the conflict between employee loyalty and moral independence, and the responsibilities of corporations and business professionals. The course will also introduce students to a number of classical ethical theories and theories of economic justice.	2.15
phil-208	This course deals with ethical and political issues arising from the relationship between humans and their natural surroundings. Typical questions that will be addressed are: Do animals have rights? Is using animals for food and clothing morally wrong? Do we have an obligation to the natural environment such as an obligation to preserve species? What are our obligations to future generations? What is sustainable development? Are environmental problems fundamentally personal or are they fundamentally political and social?	2.16
phil-209	This course will focus on ethical issues that arise in the health sciences, especially in medicine, but also in biology, psychology and other professions. Among the topics to be considered are abortion and reproductive technology, euthanasia, paternalism and autonomy, resource allocation, involuntary hospitalization and behaviour control. All moral problems will be examined from both an applied and theoretical point of view. Open to anyone in first or second year.	2.16
phil-220	An examination of the lively relationship between philosophy and literature. Philosophical theories will be approached and discussed via literary work which either embodies the theories or grounds them in human experience. Textual sources will range from the classical Greek plays to last month's best seller. Open to anyone in first or second year.	2.01
phil-221	This course is, in spirit, a continuation of PHIL 220, but it is centred on the Philosophy of Existentialism in literature. There will be an introductory set of lectures on Existentialism as a philosophy. Textual sources will range from Dostoyevsky's  'Notes from the Underground'  to Sartre's  'Nausea'. Open to anyone in first or second year.	2.01
phil-230	This course is an introduction to contemporary philosophy of mind. We will investigate the major philosophical theories of mind, but consider also if or how recent developments in neuroscience, biology, psychology, and the study of artificial intelligence influence the philosophical evaluation of these theories. Philosophy of mind is not psychology (although obviously there are connections). Rather, it is the attempt to understand what mental phenomena are and how they might relate to the physical (or material) realm. In the course, we will address questions like the following. What is the nature of mental states? What is the relationship between the mind and the body? Will a physical explanation of consciousness explain consciousness? Are 'zombies' possible? Is the brain just a computer? Is genuine artificial intelligence possible?	2.08
phil-240	Founded on a wide range of philosophical readings, this course will focus on questions such as: What is the good life and its relation to intimacy and family? What is the good person? Are there different models for different genders? What constitutes a good relationship? How important are mutuality, respect, affection, sex, and interdependence to such a relationship? What counts as equality/equity? How should the answers to such questions influence our views on such social issues as affirmative action, prostitution and pornography?	2.14
phil-242	This course tackles a broad spectrum of questions and approaches the issue of human nature. Among the questions to be considered are: Are we, by nature, morally good or evil? Are we purely egocentric beings-biological machines of some sort - or are we spiritual, immaterial beings? Is there some enduring entity that defines the self? Are we free to do as we choose? Or are we essentially passionate creatures who act strictly on the basis of our feelings? Ultimately, our goal will be to learn to think critically and independently about these issues.	2.22
phil-265	In this age of divisiveness, conflict and tension that increasingly pervades everyday life, it is difficult to engage in genuine dialogue across difference with an open mind and a charitable attitude. This course is designed to nurture the courage and the skills to do just that. This course will use Philosophy for Children (P4C)  a UNESCO recognized dialogical, inquiry-based way of teaching and learning that encourages students to think together critically, creatively, and cooperatively  as the background framework. Students will also have the opportunity to engage in traditional Indigenous circles and so have the opportunity to reflect on what these traditional ways have to teach.	2.04
phil-301	What makes life meaningful? In this course traditional views are discussed as well as recent philosophical literature that defines meaning as subjective attraction to objective value. Reasons for regarding certain values as objectively worthwhile are assessed. The belief is explored that across the globe a common core of ethical values constitutes an important and fundamental source of meaning. The course also asks if deterministic causal explanations of human choices undermine any responsibility human beings might have to achieve a meaningful life. The emphasis of the course varies from instructor to instructor.	2.57
phil-302	This course deals with a core area of philosophy - the theory of knowledge: epistemology. Epistemology deals with knowledge in its most general terms - its nature, scope, and limits. Central questions addressed include: What is knowledge? What does it take for a belief to be justified? Does justification depend on providing some reason supporting the belief, or can we know something without knowing that (or how) we know it? This course will examine these and related questions through a selection of papers and articles from many of the key figures in epistemology, focusing primarily on the arguments of epistemologists in contemporary debate.	2.64
phil-305	This course examines and evaluates central philosophical themes and problems by means of the visual medium of film.  Philosophical topics examined through the medium of film are as broad and varied as philosophy itself, but themes that have been more extensively explored include the nature of personal identity, what it is to be human, the existence and limits of free will, the existence of God, the meaning of life, as well as a wide array of issues in ethics and political philosophy.  Philosophical texts and essays will be integrated with the viewing of the films in order to bring additional focus and depth to the philosophical examination of the films. Specific films and readings assigned will vary from instructor to instructor.	2.43
phil-306	This course investigates ethical and conceptual issues regarding sex, gender, and sexual orientation and their relevance to marriage and family structures. The topics covered will include: (i) ways of classifying sexes, genders, and sexual orientations; (ii) ethical issues regarding sex and sexuality such as adultery, polyamory, monogamy, and sexual consent (iii) questions about whether we each have a right to a family and the extent to which family members have moral responsibilities to one another. Readings will be drawn from case studies and a wide range of philosophical approaches including contributions from Indigenous thinkers.	2.44
phil-309	This course will cover a wide range of topics in the field of neuroethics with the view to assisting students to develop the ability to identify and critically analyze moral problems in that field, and to clarify their own values in relation to specific ethical issues, such as bettering the brain, risks to authenticity, neuroimaging of emotion and intelligence, neuroscience and the law, neurobiology and addiction, responsibility and personhood.	2.61
phil-310	This course introduces students to central questions in climate ethics and climate justice and potential solutions. We will explore questions such as the following: How big of a problem is climate change? What explains the lack of action on the part of states to address this problem? What would a just climate treaty look like? Do we have individual obligations to reduce our personal emissions? And how should we understand our obligations to future generations? Students will consider these questions from a variety of philosophical perspectives and worldviews, including Indigenous perspectives.	2.54
phil-315	This course provides a comprehensive survey of the philosophical study of Just War Theory  that is, the concepts and moral principles associated with determining under what conditions a war, and our conduct in and after a war, can be ethically justified?  The course will cover both traditional issues as well as contemporary and emerging issues.	2.64
phil-320	This course is a general but comprehensive survey of the philosophical study of science and social implications of scientific understanding.  It has the principle aim of addressing how we developed our scientific understanding of the world, what the understanding amounts to, what impacts it has on our understanding of ourselves and our place in the surrounding place, and what judgments might follow from this understanding.	2.63
phil-401	This course will cover a wide range of topics in the field of Morality and Global Justice with the view to assisting students to develop the ability to identify and critically analyze moral problems in that field, and to clarify their own values in relation to specific ethical issues, such as poverty and the global economy, global health, religion, war, justice for women and duties to children.	2.88
phil-410	What is justice, and what is a just society? Is justice based on equality, or does it require something more? How can we bring about a more just and equitable society? This course considers these and related questions. Topics may include the nature and justification of equal rights, Indigenous vs. non-Indigenous conceptions of justice, equality of opportunity and access, economic equality, as well as oppression and civil disobedience, whether justice requires redistribution or reparations, and whether government violence is ever just.	2.88
phil-411	Public policy affects us all, but it also reflects a nation's commitments and concerns. It is important, therefore, that we critically reflect on its goals and implementation. This course evaluates the ways in which ethics and political philosophy can inform our thinking about issues in and pertaining to governance and public policy. Topics may include the trade off between ideal policy and practical feasibility, the role of science and Indigenous knowledge in informing public policy, how to measure wellbeing and offer due consideration to the interests of future generations, the right to privacy, immigration and open borders, minority rights, etc.	2.89
phil-430	This course surveys some of the key issues in contemporary philosophy of mind.  Philosophy if mind is the attempt to understand what mental phenomena are, and how they relate to the physical (or material) realm.  More generally, it is the attempt to understand what we are - that is, are we merely physical things, or are we both physical and mental (or spiritual)?  Specific area covered will vary from instructor to instructor.	2.55
phil-490	Students will work with a Philosophy faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of Philosophy website for complete details on the application process.	2.6
phys-104	This course serves as an introduction to physics for students with little or no background in the subject. Topics include mechanics, electricity and geometrical optics.	1.85
phys-110	A survey of mechanics covering vectors, statics, kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, rotation, gravitation, vibrations, and thermal physics.	1.92
phys-111	This course involves the study of electricity and magnetism, waves, physical optics, sound, and atomic and nuclear physics.	1.81
phys-112	The complexity of life can be described, at its underlying level, with physics. In this introductory course kinematics, forces, static equilibrium, energy and momentum conservation laws, fluid properties and mechanics, properties of soft matter, and thermal physics will be investigated for organisms of all sizes.	2.05
phys-113	The complexity of life can be described, at its underlying level, with physics. In this introductory course the use of: waves, superposition, acoustics, light, refraction, optics, lenses, vision, diffraction, quantum properties of light and interaction with molecules, absorption of radiation, electric fields, and electric circuits in the investigation of organisms of all sizes will be presented.	2.06
phys-114	A survey of mechanics covering vectors, kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, rotation, gravitation, vibrations, waves and special relativity. This course, together with PHYS 115, is particularly suitable for students going into the physical sciences or engineering.	1.96
phys-115	Electricity and magnetism, AC circuits, physical optics, and quantum physics.	2.0
phys-116	Statics of particles, force-couple systems and rigid body statics. Extension of principles from PHYS 114 and application to practical and more advanced dynamics problems. Thermometry, thermal properties of matter, heat, geometrical optics.	1.95
phys-200	Temperature, heat, the zeroth, first, second and third laws of thermodynamics, kinetic theory, and a mathematical treatment of waves.	2.28
phys-201	The study of electric and magnetic fields; DC and AC circuits; LR, RC, LRC circuits; resonance; Maxwell's Equations, Fourier Analysis and electromagnetic waves.	2.07
phys-203	This course deals with a broad range of applications of the theory and principles of fluid mechanics. Emphasis is on hydrostatics, aerodynamics, flows with heat and mass transfer, flows in the micro-scale and flows in the natural environment. The effects of thermodynamics and heat transfer will also be presented and included in the examples covered.	2.07
phys-210	A weekly three-hour lab in mathematical methods, thermodynamics, electrical measurements and mechanics.	2.3
phys-211	A weekly three-hour lab in electricity and magnetism, electronics and mechanics.	2.27
phys-218	Use of computer software to solve numerical problems in physics. Applications include drag forces, the driven, damped oscillator, simulations of chaotic systems, random variables, techniques for handling digital data and signal processing.	2.03
phys-222	Newtonian mechanics of particles and rigid bodies. Topics include rocket propulsion, collisions, central forces, rotating frames of reference, and rotation of rigid bodies.	2.09
phys-300	This course will introduce the properties of energy in its various forms as well as other thermodynamic properties of systems from both macroscopic and microscopic viewpoints.  Course topics include thermal equilibrium, equivalence of heat and work, laws of thermodynamics, thermodynamic potentials, entropy, phase changes, adiabatic lapse rate, heat engines, Carnot cycles, efficiency, equations of state, van der Waals fluids, fundamentals of statistical mechanics, equipartition, ensemble averaging, Boltzmann statistics, interacting systems, and chemical thermodynamics.	2.65
phys-310	Students will pursue several open-ended experiments, relevant to Clean Technology, Environmental Science, and Energy technologies, to investigate a phenomenon as far as desired or as time permits. The methods and procedures of experimental physics are emphasized. Students will perform several experiments from four modules: three of the modules will contain a list of prepared experiments and the final module will have the student create a new experiment of their own conception.	2.67
pol-100	    This course will introduce students to the theories and concepts necessary to understand the complex world of contemporary politics. It will prepare students to become global citizens and enjoy a lifetime of meaningful political participation in the Canadian  or any other  political system.	2.01
pol-102	    This course will introduce students to the wide range of political systems that exist throughout the world today, be it Asia, Africa, Europe, or the Americas. By studying these systems in detail, students will gain an appreciation for how political behaviour varies throughout the world, as well as develop a better critical understanding of their own political system.	1.82
pol-104	    Knowledge about the Canadian system of government is important for job preparation of all kinds, as the policy decisions of government affect every career. Through class discussion and debate, role-play, consideration of politicians' perspectives, current events, and readings, this course will examine the basic design, decision-making processes, and democratic credentials of such institutions as parliamentary democracy, the Crown, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, federalism, political parties, the electoral system and the constitution.	1.97
pol-110	    Political theory is a form of reflection on matters that concern the community as a whole. It poses questions about the meanings of concepts such as justice, liberty, citizenship, and order. This course offers an introductory examination of the tradition of Western political thought, ranging from the Ancient Greeks to Modern times. Thinkers covered may include Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, Niccol; Machiavelli, Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Mary Wollstonecraft, Karl Marx, and John Rawls. Indigenous, feminist, and critical race theory may also be used to interrogate and re-imagine traditional concepts and debates in political thought.	1.92
pol-111	    Why do we often disagree with our leaders? Do you sometimes wonder if your ideas make more sense than the Prime Minister's? Students will find answers to these questions in 'Contemporary Ideologies' by studying various ideologies such as liberalism, conservatism, socialism, anarchism, fascism, religious fundamentalism, feminism and environmentalism. This course emphasizes practical skills such as group discussion, presentations, and research/writing skills, which will help students develop their critical thinking and excel in their careers/ life.	2.05
pol-201	    Where does the will to engage in armed conflict come from? How are decisions made to fight or collaborate with others? Why are some states more prosperous and healthy than others? This course answers these questions by studying various dimensions of conflicts, decision making, institutions, international law, human rights, the environment, economic collaboration, and the proliferation of weapons. This course promotes experiential learning through group work, student presentations, research/writing, and participation in a UN simulation.	2.15
pol-202	    In this course, students will gain a working knowledge of British Columbias political institutions, its political history, and the major forces shaping politics in the province. Topics of emphasis include institutions of government, parties and elections, environmental politics, federal-provincial relations, and case studies on selected public policy issues.  An examination of Indigenous forms of government and policymaking processes within BC constitute a core aspect of this course.	2.01
pol-203	    This course is about the institutionalization of cooperation at the international level. It offers an empirical analysis of a range of existing international organizations, including the UN, The World Bank, NATO, and the WHO. It also examines current debates concerning the role(s) and overall efficacy of international organizations in the areas of peace/security, trade, development, human rights, global health, and the environment. Students are required to think critically about how international organizations respond to global political forces and challenges, and about the kinds of effects they have on the patterns and developments of global politics. Particular emphasis is placed on Indigenous presence within and engagement with international organizations.	2.04
pol-204	    This course introduces students to the public policy process in Canada. It examines the formation, implementation, and effects of public policies in specific areas such as health policy, immigration policy, language policy, welfare policy, and foreign policy. A particular emphasis is placed on Indigenous public policies.	2.24
pol-205	    Globalization has dramatically increased the scope of treaties and international institutions. The result has been a surge of interest in international law - to govern trade and economic activity; deal with the movement of greater numbers of people; cope with the scourge of conflict and violence; and commit to human rights and humanitarian goals. Students learn the basic concepts and terms of international law; apply effective reading and interpretation of treaties and international legal decisions; and explore the relevance of international law.	2.28
pol-206	    This course introduces the student to the variety of approaches and tools available to those studying politics. Students will become familiar with the nature of and debates inherent in contemporary political studies, as well as the strengths and weaknesses of the various methods employed by students of politics. By developing their own research project, students will struggle first-hand with the issues central to all types of social science research: selecting from alternative models of explanation, attempting to isolate variables, and dealing with questions of cause and effect to name but a few. Students may have the opportunity to develop and work on a prototype political studies journal as well.	2.25
pol-207	    This course covers an important thinker, school of thought, or issue in contemporary social and political theory. Specific topics will shift from term to term but might include, for example, the role of the state in capitalist societies, current debates in democratic theory, current debates in postcolonial and decolonial theory, the role and place of political protest in contemporary society, an examination of the meaning of liberty in complex societies, the renewal of nationalism and critiques of cosmopolitanism, the persistence of political violence, or the work and influence of a particular theorist: for example, Arendt, Gramsci, Marcuse, Foucault, Habermas, Rawls to name a few.	2.02
pol-209	    The European Union is one the worlds largest and most influential political and economic unions. As an experiment in peaceful international cooperation, it is unrivaled. Yet, it is also a political experiment that has been marked by perennial crises: financial, geopolitical, identity-driven, and even controversy over its own democratic legitimacy. This course examines the politics of, in, and against the EU. Students will learn how core EU institutions have evolved and operate. They will also examine themes such as EU enlargement, the single market, immigration and citizenship, the rise of right-wing populism, the shock of Brexit, and the future of the EU in a more fractured, multipolar era.	2.24
pol-210	    This course offers a comprehensive examination of the central institutions and processes of American politics. It begins with an examination of the historical and theoretical foundations and evolution of American Republic. Major themes covered include the constitution, federalism, congress, the presidency, the judiciary, civil rights, and foreign policy. Contemporary challenges facing American politics are also discussed, such as the rise of populism, the polarization of American political culture, the persistence of racial exclusion and inequality, Native American politics and Tribal sovereignty, the influence of money and corporate power on politics, and the changing nature of American power on the global stage.	2.23
pol-222	    This course will further explore the field of comparative politics from the perspective of a select world region. The region will change according to the interest/expertise of the instructor and/or important political events of the time. By taking this course, students will deepen their understanding of diverse political systems, traditions and transformations as well as hone their critical analysis of political developments and debates around the world.	2.13
pol-250	    Students learn the historical evolution of human rights standards in the world and explore the principles and practices of human rights norms at the global and regional levels. They explore the significance of international conventions, global and regional instruments, and multiple dimensions of human rights in a globalized context. They also learn about the key debates on the issue of universality and cultural relativism, responsibility to protect, right to development, war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, and gender discrimination.	2.22
pol-299	    This field school course will focus on the politics of states and regional organizations in a specific region of the international system. Through lectures and on-line activities delivered before departure and during a field trip through the region chosen, students will come to understand the differing types of politic behaviour and activities within states and between states and international organizations in a specific region, including the historical, social, cultural, geographic and international contexts in which those states and organizations exist. Students will also come to understand the methods, typologies, theories, and concepts used in the comparative study of politics as applied to the region studied.	2.25
pol-301	    Public Policy is how government works to address social, cultural, economic, and environmental issues. In this course, we examine how public policies are designed and implemented in liberal democratic and non-democratic states. The course takes an issue-based approach, examining different policy areas such as healthcare, immigration, education, Indigenous rights, and environmental policy. The course also features a practical and studio-based aspect, where students are invited to 'step into' the world of public policy by crafting their own briefing papers and policy presentations. Students will attain scholarly knowledge and develop practical capacities in the field of public policy.	2.47
pol-302	    This course examines the relationship between government and the courts in Canada. It explores how the Canadian legal system functions within the wider political system. Comparisons are drawn between Canada's legal system and other liberal-democratic states. Core themes include the structure of the Canadian court system, how judges are selected and make decisions, the importance of judicial independence and accountability, how the Charter of Rights and Freedoms has transformed Canadian politics, and the overall effect of the courts on the quality of Canadian democracy and the rights of Indigenous peoples. Deeper questions concerning the pursuit of justice in contemporary liberal democratic societies will also be posed.	2.68
pol-305	    In addition to the fundamentals of public international law, students learn the procedure and principles in cases and decisions. With emphasis on the decisions of the International Court of Justice and related tribunals, cases are analyzed and discussed. Legal practice is highlighted with the Moot Court, an exercise involving legal research, the application of legal principles to fact-based cases, and the skills in argument and examination.	2.64
pol-308	    Justice for Canada's Indigenous peoples, given the devastating impact of colonialism upon their lives, is both a moral and political imperative. Through class activity, elders, films, and readings, this course equips students to understand, appreciate, and take positions on the important political challenges presented by colonialism, Canadian Indigenous policy, Indigenous political identity and nationalism, self-government, treaties, and court decisions on Indigenous rights and title. In doing so, the course equips students with the understanding required to appreciate the nature of the claims that Indigenous peoples bring to their engagement with the Canadian state.	2.54
pol-309	    Students explore the structure, institutions and operations of the European Union, an unprecedented form of governance in an increasingly globalized political environment. Students will also learn about how the EU functions as a significant regional internal governmental organization, with particular emphasis on EU-Canada relations. Students will then apply their knowledge to real-world challenges faced by the EU.	2.47
pol-310	    Climate change, pandemics, human rights, global inequality, and terrorism constitute some of the major political challenges of our time. All are transnational in that they reflect the heightened interconnectedness of the planet. They are complex issues that cannot be effectively addressed within the confines of a single state. In this course we investigate the global flows of wealth, trade, human bodies, and infectious disease, along with the ways in which international organizations and social movements have emerged to meet these challenges. We will also examine how through collective agency on a global scale, Indigenous peoples are generating strategies for decolonization. Students will be challenged to connect their understanding of transnational issues to local, community-based realities and experiences.	2.43
pol-315	    Students in this course will study the tradition of Utopian and Dystopian literature and political thought throughout history, and identify how modern versions of this tradition (both literary and cinematic) may help or impede our attempts to find solutions to the political, social, and economic challenges we face today.	2.7
pol-320	    This course provides students with the opportunity to engage in an in-depth study of how environmental issues are dealt with across national boundaries. Theoretical approaches are critically evaluated in order to organize a systematic study of relevant actors, institutions and agreements in the field of global ecopolitics. Key concepts associated with environmental issues such as sustainability, ecological footprint, and the precautionary principle are also critically evaluated.	2.41
pol-330	    The global economy is in crisis. The once triumphant but often criticized project of globalization is under extreme stress. Threats include the emergence of new geopolitical rivalries, the surge of authoritarian nationalisms, the fragmentation of global trade, the devastating effects of global financial crises, and the intensification of global inequalities. This course examines the basic architecture of the global economic system as well as the ways in which political power structures and interacts with the system. It also examines how the global economic system and who wields power within it is in a state of flux. Students are not expected to have a background in economics.	2.46
pol-335	    This course examines identity politics through the lens of political theory.  The course analyzes the different kinds of identity categories within liberal democracies and how they become infused with political meaning. It also investigates the strategic issues that identity-based movements face as they develop. Case studies and films are utilized to create a supportive space for critical thinking about categories such as race, ethnicity, Indigeneity, gender, and class. Special attention will be placed upon how the lived experience of intersecting and oppressive forces constitute the basis for emancipatory politics.	2.57
pol-340	    This course provides a comprehensive overview of the main debates on citizenship in liberal democracies and the implications of globalization on those debates.  The course will examine citizenship from the perspective of rights, participatory democracy and identity politics as expressed in cultural, ethnic, national, and gendered contexts. The course will also consider the degree to which globalization has de-territorialized and fragmented citizenship thereby raising new challenges about how community identity, civic ties, human rights, environmental stewardship and social justice are to be practiced and experienced.	2.51
pol-350	    In addition to exploring the historical evolution of human rights standards in the world, the principles and practices of human rights norms at the global and regional levels, the significance of international conventions and instruments, and learning about the key debates on human rights issues (i.e. universality and cultural relativism, responsibility to protect, right to development, war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, and gender discrimination), students also analyze specific human rights cases, conduct a community outreach project, and complete other higher level of research assignments to earn a 300 level credit in this course.	2.67
pol-410	    This course is about doing public policy. It provides students with the analytical tools and skills they need to conduct public policy analysis for employers in the public, private, and non-governmental sectors.  In the classroom, students work collaboratively to address real world problems, exploring and formulating concrete policy options and alternatives. This course will help students become effective and ethical practitioners of public policy. Special emphasis is placed on the public policy process in the context of First Nations, Inuit, and Mtis communities and organizations.	2.87
pol-490	    Students will work with a Political Science faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project.  Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members. See the Department of Political Science website for complete details on the application process.	2.74
ppmi-526	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.07
ppmi-527	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.39
ppmi-528	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.96
ppmi-530	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.03
ppmi-534	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.81
ppmi-535	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.82
ppmi-536	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.08
ppmi-538	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.23
ppmi-540	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.42
ppmi-545	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.36
ppmi-626	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.91
ppmi-627	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.2
ppmi-628	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.48
ppmi-629	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.86
ppmi-630	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.15
ppmi-634	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.01
ppmi-635	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.07
ppmi-636	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.97
ppmi-638	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.47
ppmi-640	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.28
ppmi-645	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.35
ppmi-726	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.99
ppmi-727	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.9
ppmi-728	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.07
ppmi-730	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.19
ppmi-734	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.95
ppmi-735	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.34
ppmi-736	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.34
ppmi-738	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.07
ppmi-740	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.25
ppmi-745	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.91
ppmi-826	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.34
ppmi-827	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.8
ppmi-828	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.05
ppmi-830	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.35
ppmi-834	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.5
ppmi-835	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.82
ppmi-836	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.02
ppmi-838	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.23
ppmi-840	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.41
ppmi-844	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.08
ppmi-845	A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.4
pmip-101	Private music instruction designed to meet the individual needs of each student and develop the skills necessary to prepare an audition for 100-level PMI courses.	2.05
pmip-201	Private music instruction designed to meet the individual needs of each student and develop the skills necessary to prepare an audition for 100-level PMI courses.	2.29
pmip-301	Private music instruction designed to meet the individual needs of each student and develop the skills necessary to prepare an audition for 100-level PMI courses.	2.58
pmip-401	Private music instruction designed to meet the individual needs of each student and develop the skills necessary to prepare an audition for 100-level PMI courses.	2.81
pmi-526	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.38
pmi-527	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.21
pmi-528	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.39
pmi-530	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.06
pmi-534	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.15
pmi-535	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.86
pmi-536	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.19
pmi-538	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.01
pmi-540	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.3
pmi-545	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.37
pmi-626	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.47
pmi-627	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.91
pmi-628	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.2
pmi-629	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.32
pmi-630	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.97
pmi-634	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.19
pmi-635	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.82
pmi-636	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.44
pmi-638	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.27
pmi-640	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.12
pmi-645	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.16
pmi-726	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.15
pmi-727	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.24
pmi-728	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.26
pmi-730	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.16
pmi-734	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.29
pmi-735	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.48
pmi-736	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.21
pmi-738	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.37
pmi-740	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.21
pmi-745	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.91
pmi-826	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.89
pmi-827	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.34
pmi-828	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.99
pmi-830	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.02
pmi-834	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.43
pmi-835	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.36
pmi-836	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.46
pmi-838	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	2.9
pmi-840	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.05
pmi-844	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.48
pmi-845	    A course designed to permit students in the Performance Major to pursue in-depth study of their major instruments. The course consists of ten 90-minute or fifteen 60-minute private lessons, to suit the needs of each student.	3.05
pmti-100	Musical Theatre program students will be instructed in voice production, vocal technique, vocal health, and in repertoire from the Musical theatre genre.	2.0
pmti-101	Musical Theatre program students will be instructed in voice production, vocal technique, vocal health, and in repertoire from the Musical theatre genre.	1.98
pmti-102	An introductory course where students develop specific areas in vocal production and technique.	1.9
pmti-103	Students will build on the skills learned in PMTI 102 and will receive instruction in voice production, vocal health, and Alexander Technique.	1.81
pmti-200	Musical Theatre students will receive further instruction in song performance, vocal technique, vocal health  hygiene and will continue to explore varied repertoire from the Musical Theatre canon as well as other relevant genres.	2.03
pmti-201	Musical Theatre students will receive further instruction in song performance, vocal technique, vocal health  hygiene and will continue to explore varied repertoire from the Musical Theatre canon as well as other relevant genres.	2.27
pmti-202	An intermediate course where students continue to build on the vocal skills they have learned in PMTI 102 and 103 and will receive instruction in voice production, vocal health, singing, and Alexander Technique.	2.17
pmti-203	Students will receive advanced instruction in vocal production, technique, and vocal health. Dialect work, accent reduction, and Alexander technique are additional skills that this course offers.	2.09
pmti-300	Musical Theatre students will further expand their knowledge of song performance, vocal technique and vocal health  hygiene through more challenging and varied repertoire. Students will practice an increased level of musicianship and performance skill as well as continue to explore and execute techniques for successful auditions.	2.53
pmti-301	Musical Theatre students will further expand their knowledge of song performance, vocal technique and vocal health  hygiene through more challenging and varied repertoire. Students will practice an increased level of musicianship and performance skill as well as continue to explore and execute techniques for successful auditions.	2.44
psyc-100	A course designed to introduce the beginning psychology student to some of the major concepts and approaches necessary to an understanding of human behaviour from a psychological perspective. Learning, biological basis of behaviour, development, personality, and other selected issues are included.	1.86
psyc-101	This course is an introduction to the field of psychology. Course topics include history of psychology, research methods, sensation, perception, consciousness, intelligence, motivation, emotion, stress, coping, health, psychological disorders, and therapeutic approaches.	2.03
psyc-200	A study of the dynamics and effects of social influences on individual human behaviour. The course looks at such topics as attitudes and attitude changes, social beliefs, roles, conformity, group processes, prejudice, interpersonal attraction and psychological effects of the physical environment.	2.16
psyc-207	This course is an introduction to the study of human growth and changes across the lifespan, including physical, cognitive, social, intellectual, perceptual, personality and emotional growth.	2.03
psyc-212	A course for students who intend to major in one of the social sciences; psychology students should take this course and PSYC 213. This course will introduce the student to current research methods in major areas of psychology. Students should understand the principles of research methodology, and be able to evaluate, design and conduct research in psychology.	2.12
psyc-213	This course deals with descriptive and inferential statistics as applied in psychology. These will be considered as they are used in psychological research.	2.15
psyc-222	A study of the various models and perspectives for viewing patterns and treatment of psychopathology. The course will examine research about how the medical model and the behaviourist, humanist, psychoanalytic, cognitive and biological schools in psychology view this topic. This course will also focus on the historical and contemporary approaches to treatment.	2.07
psyc-225	This course will expand on material introduced in introductory psychology dealing with the biological basis of behaviour. Students will examine functions of the nervous system, as well as studying brain anatomy and brain chemistry in relation to both normal and pathological behaviour. As well, students will discuss mind-body issues and develop an understanding of broader ethical and other issues in neuroscience.	2.07
psyc-230	This course will address many of the issues relating to the thinking processes. Research into consciousness, memory, language,  imagery, problem solving, creativity and intelligence will be examined, as well as social cognition and cognition across the lifespan.	2.22
psyc-240	This course will introduce major areas of applied psychology. Students will learn about and critically evaluate ways in which psychological evidence and techniques can be applied to areas including mental and physical health management, forensics, business, education, and sports.	2.13
psyc-300	This course will include topics in the area of interpersonal relationships, especially romantic or close friendship relationships and family relationships. It will include psychological theories and research about the stages, processes and effects of the development, maintenance, disruption and dissolution of personal relationships.	2.41
psyc-301	A study of the behaviour of individuals in social groups and institutions, such as friendship groups, work groups, therapy groups, and families. This course provides an intellectual and experiential approach to small group theory and allows the student to practise constructive interpersonal skills and leadership skills in a supportive, small group setting.	2.44
psyc-303	This course will examine the development of psychological thought to gain a critical understanding of contemporary psychology. Issues will range from the mind-body problem, and the nature of science, to an analysis of historical and contemporary schools in psychology.	2.53
psyc-304	A study of the child's development from infancy to adolescence, including the development of social behaviour, personality, language and cognitive processes. Students will be encouraged to do research and observations.	2.68
psyc-305	A course dealing with the psychological development of the individual from early adulthood to death, with emphasis on intellectual and personality changes, and the social context of aging. As well as being exposed to basic research in the area, students will be encouraged to develop an empathetic understanding of the aging process.	2.69
psyc-306	This course examines the biological, cognitive and social transitions of adolescence and how they affect such developmental areas as identity, autonomy, intimacy, sexuality and achievement. As well as being exposed to basic research in the area, students will be encouraged to explore their own identity development.	2.4
psyc-315	The psychology of human sexuality examines the psychological, biological and social science of human sexuality. Topics to be covered will include: sexual behaviour and arousal, sexual bodies, puberty and menopause, sexual orientation, sexually transmitted infections, contraception, abortion, sex hormones, sexual disorders, sex therapy, coercive sex, commodity-based sex, pregnancy and fertility.	2.53
psyc-321	This course will examine theories of personality including psychodynamic, trait, cognitive and humanistic and other approaches. Included will be a consideration of the historical/cultural development of the theory, what the theory says about the development, structure and dynamics of personality and examples of empirical research.	2.47
psyc-325	In this course students will be introduced to the psychology of health. Topics will include research methods in health psychology and ethical issues, health behaviours, stress, coping, social support, pain and pain behaviour, and social factors in the etiology and course of chronic and terminal illnesses.	2.6
psyc-326	This course provides an introduction to the major concepts and theories of positive psychology, focusing on the scientific study of well-being, happiness and positive human experience. Students will also learn how to apply principles of positive psychology to their everyday lives.	2.48
psyc-327	This course will review theories and research in workplace and social psychology to gain an understanding of individuals in the workplace, including individual differences, motivation, job satisfaction and stress. It will also explore topics in human resource management, social processes in group structure and dynamics, and research on leadership, decision making and ethics in the workplace.	2.42
psyc-328	This course examines psychological concepts as they apply to the criminal justice system. Forensic psychology includes research and practice in several areas of psychology, including cognitive, social, clinical, developmental, and psychometrics.	2.53
psyc-329	This course provides an introduction to community psychology. This discipline is a justice-oriented field of psychology that is uniquely rooted in interconnection and context. In this course, learners will examine the definitions, principles, history, values and methods of community psychology. The course will also explore major theories guiding community psychology practices and the applications of community psychology. Key concepts will be applied to analyze real-world social problems from a community psychology perspective and to identify appropriate social interventions.	2.62
psyc-330	This course will address topics in the study of thinking and reasoning, a crucial topic in cognitive psychology, including theory and research on problem solving, thinking and decision-making; formal and everyday reasoning; intuition and creativity; cross-cultural and individual variations in thinking processes; and the cognitive heuristics which can bias or distort human rationality and effective decision making when dealing with social issues and problems. The theories will be applied to the problems of human cognitive limitations in solving urgent social and environmental crises.	2.51
psyc-331	This course examines issues in psycholinguistics, focusing on how humans acquire, learn, construct, understand, and use language.	2.59
psyc-332	This course will address topics in the study of memory, a crucial topic in cognitive psychology, and will include theory and research on explicit and implicit memory systems, working memory, the neurology of memory, forgetting and memory disorders, and how to improve memory (mnemonics). Current issues and research in long term memory such as reconstructive processes in memory, eyewitness memory, and repressed memory will also be included.	2.68
psyc-333	This course emphasizes the evaluation and applications of learning theories to human and animal learning. Students will critically examine learning theories and principles including habituation, sensitization, classical and operant conditioning, and cognitive control of behaviour. There will also be an emphasis on applying these concepts to issues of behavioural change, at the self, community, and societal levels.	2.61
psyc-334	This course examines the functioning of human sensory systems and explores how the brain receives, processes and interprets stimuli from our environment. Topics include vision, audition, taste, smell, touch, proprioception, and psychophysics.	2.42
psyc-335	This course will address research and theories in the allied topics of emotions and motivation. The course will include experiential, behavioural, psychological, biological, cognitive and social aspects of motivation and of emotions, including needs; goals; mindsets and beliefs; and basic, self, and complex emotions. The course will include stress reactions, attachment bonds, the development of self-regulation, empathy, and compassion.	2.7
psyc-336	This course examines the relationship between human neurological functioning and behaviour. Neuroanatomy and the organization of the nervous system will be reviewed, with a focus on how they support a wide range of cognitive functions. Neuropathy, psychiatric disorders, neurological disease, and functional issues associated to brain damage will be explored.	2.67
psyc-337	This course surveys the field of behavioural pharmacology, examines psychoactive drugs, their mechanisms of action in the nervous system, and their effects on the brain and behaviour. It will focus on current research into the pharmacology of drugs, historical accounts of drug use, an examination of recreational use/clinical applications, and insights into their potential abuse.	2.53
psyc-338	This course applies the theory of evolution by natural selection to the study of the human mind. It examines the environments of evolutionary adaptiveness and the success and failure of human adaptations in the contemporary world.	2.62
psyc-340	This course surveys the psychology of environmental sustainability, the scientific study of the relationship between humans and the rest of nature. It will focus on the application of theories and research in psychology to the issues of conservation in the face of climate crises and the urgent need to develop environmental sustainability, to decrease the negative impact of humans and to encourage environmentally-friendly behaviour.	2.41
psyc-341	This course examines religious and spiritual experiences, attitudes and behaviours from multiple angles within contemporary Psychology.  Themes of the course include: history of empirical inquiry into religion and spirituality; modern research methods; interacting roles of biological and psychosocial factors in the formation of religious commitments and predilection toward spiritual experiences; relationships between religious and spiritual orientations and physical and mental health; and determinants of religious behaviours, from altruism to terrorism.	2.62
psyc-342	This course explores the nature of imagination from a History of Psychology viewpoint. The topic is framed in an evolutionary context; then relevant concepts are traced from preliterate societies to the present.  Imagination is examined: as an archaic way of knowing; in relation to historical notions of body, mind, soul and spirit; as cognitive faculty or process; with respect to beliefs about health and illness; and as studied qualitatively and quantitatively in Modern Psychology.	2.49
psyc-343	This course examines a range of commonly reported anomalous experiences from the critical perspective of Psychology. Unlike an Abnormal Psychology course, the focus is mainly on nonpathological experiences. The 'critical thinking' approach is reviewed; a brief historical overview of claims and critiques is presented; and several types of anomalous experience are considered with respect to the biopsychosocial processes that affect perception, memory and belief.	2.56
psyc-400	This course examines how culture influences psychological processes. Students will learn about methodologies used to study cultural psychology. They will also critically examine and synthesize research findings in this interdisciplinary field.	2.83
psyc-401	Indigenous psychology is an emerging field that acknowledges and respects other ways of being and knowing in our world. This course will explore psychological perspectives on Indigenous cultures, histories, languages and identities. There will be a focus on strength from Indigenous perspectives, including Indigenous ways of healing and a consideration of ways to support and engage in decolonialization.	2.51
psyc-410	This course provides a basis for integrating knowledge and developing practical skills for addressing ethical issues that arise in counselling and applied psychology. This course will focus on developing a critical analysis of personal and collective worldviews in counselling processes. Learners will develop core knowledge and build practical skills in relational ethics and social justice values while examining the role of regulatory and collegial professional associations in Canada. Materials on Indigenous ethics necessary to promote increased cultural safety in both counselling and research involving Indigenous communities will be presented, alongside ethical issues applied to other traditionally marginalized and/or underserved populations.	2.68
psyc-412	This course will address how to develop, plan, and conduct applied research including experimental, correlational, and survey designs, as well as qualitative and field research methods. Students will learn how to identify a research problem and question, design and implement a study, analyze, interpret, and write up the results, and to communicate their research to academic audiences, and in their local communities.	2.9
psyc-413	This course outlines a variety of quantitative and qualitative data analytic methods used in applied psychological research. Quantitative topics will include the analysis of multiple independent and dependent variables, outlier identification, non-parametric tests, mixed method analysis of variance and covariance, and regression models. Qualitative data analytic techniques including phenomenological analysis, grounded theory, and narrative analysis will also be outlined.	2.54
psyc-415	This course will cover the development of the Internet in a historical context, and explore how personal and collective relationships to technology influence Internet use. We will examine the empirical research evaluating the personal and collective social and psychological costs and benefits of Internet use, especially of activities that exist or are experienced in wholly online formats.	2.82
psyc-420	This course focuses on psychometric theories, concepts, and applications. Students will gain the theoretical and statistical knowledge necessary to understand when, why, and how to use psychometrics in their work and research. They will also gain experience in test-taking, interpretation, and design.	2.65
psyc-422	This course examines the foundational assumptions, efficacy, ethics and socio-cultural values in clinical and counselling psychology. It also reviews major theories of clinical psychology, counselling psychology, and psychotherapy, including analytic, existential, person-centred, behavioural, cognitive, family systems and postmodern, indigenous and multi-cultural/diversity approaches.	2.71
psyc-423	This foundational course to develop counselling skills will support students in developing their ability to practice empathic listening, responding, and interviewing within the context of helping relationships. Students will digitally record their mock counselling sessions and will build reflective papers based on these digital recordings. Within this experiential course students will explore ethics in counselling relationships as well as theories of interpersonal helping, with a focus on building safety in the context of critical social and cultural issues that affect the counselling process.	2.82
psyc-430	Students will apply the knowledge and skills of psychology gained through their program of study, in work-integrated learning settings with community organizations, under co-supervision of the course instructor and the employer partner or volunteer. Students will meet regularly with their supervisors to discuss their progress and will produce reports and presentations related to their work-integrated learning practicum experience.	2.9
psyc-440	The course will relate contemporary research and knowledge from psychology to various current topics and social issues. Specific topics will vary from year to year. Each delivery of this course will  have specific instructor identified course objectives.	2.91
psyc-480	Students will work with a psychology instructor to guide them through an in-depth research-based or scholarly investigation of a topic in psychology, approved by the advisor. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and the faculty advisor. The thesis will be written and presented in an appropriate thesis length and format.	2.93
psyc-481	In this Seminar, the Psychology Honours program and thesis requirements will be reviewed in preparation for the thesis to be completed in PSYC 480 (Honours Thesis). Topics include choosing a thesis topic, researching and writing a critical literature review or summary of foundational knowledge, and methodological issues. Course work will culminate in a presentation of the thesis proposal. If appropriate, the student will submit an application for ethical approval to the Capilano Research Ethics Board.	2.95
psyc-490	Students will work with a Psychology faculty member to guide them in the development of a research-based project. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members.	2.78
radp-100	Students will learn about the environment in which health care is delivered, the rehabilitation approach, their role responsibilities and the client's perspective. Students will also learn the meaning of safe, ethical, competent practice and develop an understanding of professionalism in relation to clients/significant others, colleagues and community.	2.07
radp-101	Students will learn effective interpersonal communications skills from a rehabilitation framework in order to facilitate and support the Rehabilitation Assistant in teaching and working with clients, clinicians and interdisciplinary teams both individually and in groups.	1.81
radp-111	Students will learn about occupational therapy in terms of rehabilitation theory, principles, process and practice.	2.08
radp-112	Students will learn about physical therapy in terms of rehabilitation theory, principles, process and practice.	1.88
radp-113	Students will gain an understanding of speech-language pathology in terms of rehabilitation theory, principles, process and practice.	2.04
radp-114	Students will learn about being a Rehabilitation Assistant in terms of rehabilitation theory, principles, process and practices specifically designed to provide Rehabilitation Assistants with a practice process and strong foundation for problem-solving.	1.99
radp-120	Students will learn about developmental milestones and skill acquisition. These will be discussed in terms or impairments and treatment plans for developing or restoring skill function following disease or injury.	1.92
radp-121	Students will learn about the musculoskeletal system, its functions, how it coordinates posture, core stability and body mechanics.	1.82
radp-122	Students will learn about the cardio-respiratory and lymphatic systems, and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistant skills used in the treatment of cardiac and pulmonary diseases when working with physiotherapists.	2.01
radp-130	Students will learn about diseases and injuries which cause impairment to the musculoskeletal system, usual interventions and effects on a person's activity and participation levels.	1.88
radp-131	Students will learn to apply theory and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistant skills used in the treatment of musculoskeletal diseases and injuries when working with occupational therapists.	1.96
radp-132	Students will learn to apply theory and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistant skills used in the treatment of musculoskeletal diseases and injuries when working with physiotherapists.	1.94
radp-140	Students will learn about diseases and injuries which cause impairment to cognitive and/or psychosocial systems, usual interventions and effects on a person's activity and participation levels.	2.04
radp-141	Students will learn to apply theory and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistant skills used in the treatment of cognitive and psychosocial diseases and injuries when working with occupational therapists and physiotherapists.	2.0
radp-190	Students will have practical clinical experience necessary to work effectively as a Rehabilitation Assistant supporting occupational therapists, physiotherapists and speech-language pathologists in public or private practice. All fieldwork competencies must be successfully completed at Fieldwork I Level in order to continue in the program.	2.01
radp-201	Students will learn advanced communication skills and learn technological methods to support clinical work with clients, clinicians, interdisciplinary teams and operational work that supports the delivery of rehabilitation services and related records.	2.21
radp-210	Students will learn the fundamental data, file management and system skills to support efficient and effective operations within the health care delivery system.	2.11
radp-211	Students will gain an understanding of the function and process of recreation activities and how to use these activities to assist people in developing, maintaining or restoring skills to their optimal levels of activity and participation within their community.	2.13
radp-230	Students will learn about diseases and injuries which cause impairment to the neurological system, usual interventions and effect on a person's activity and participation levels.	2.22
radp-231	Students will learn to apply theory and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistant skills used in the treatment of neurological diseases and injuries when  working with occupational therapists.	2.18
radp-232	Students will learn to apply theory and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistants skills used in the treatment of neurological diseases and injuries when  working with physiotherapists.	2.28
radp-233	Students will learn to apply theory and acquire the practical rehabilitation assistant skills used in the treatment of neurological diseases and injuries when  working with speech-language pathologists.	2.03
radp-240	Students will learn about aging; the resulting effects on activity, participation,  social community; and interventions for safety and maintenance of function used by Rehabilitation Assistants working with occupational therapists and physiotherapists.	2.13
radp-243	Students will learn about hearing, its functions, how it affects communication, and the strategies and devices used to restore function.	2.23
radp-250	Students will learn about the delivery of rehabilitation services in the community including maintenance, development or restoration of skills and performance in terms of activity and participation including home, work, and leisure.	2.26
radp-290	Students will have practical clinical experience necessary to work effectively as a Rehabilitation Assistant supporting occupational therapists, physiotherapists and speech-language pathologists in public or private practice.  All fieldwork competencies must be successfully completed at Fieldwork II Level in order to continue in the program.	2.1
radp-291	In this practical clinical experience, the student will have an opportunity to work at a level comparable to that of employable Rehabilitation Assistants. All fieldwork competencies must be successfully completed at the Graduate Level in order to complete the program and receive a diploma.	2.13
rmcp-172	Retail is a dynamic and fast-paced industry. Introduction to Retail provides a thorough examination of the Canadian retail landscape, offering students a comprehensive understanding of the retail sector. By exploring the public-facing aspects of retail, students will develop an understanding of the retail channel and its relevance to operations, management, and career opportunities.	2.02
rmcp-173	Retail is a dynamic and fast-paced environment where promotion, marketing and merchandise decisions support the sustainable competitive advantage of an organization. In this course, students will examine both in-store and online retail communications, promotions, and assortment planning. The focus will be on the various types of activities and processes that will affect a retailers competitiveness and profitability.	1.89
rmcp-375	In this course, students will study advanced and innovative Canadian retail business practices. They will identify issues that relate to the role played by innovation in adapting to retail disruption and rapidly changing consumer purchasing behaviors. Through a research project, students will demonstrate their knowledge of retail mix.	2.49
sci-021	    An introduction to the basic scientific concepts and language of general science.	2.86
sci-100	    This course uses guest speakers, videos and field trips to provide students with an orientation to a career as an applied scientist with a focus on life sciences, clean technology and data science.	1.86
sci-369	    Science is both a body of knowledge and a process of gathering knowledge. As a discipline, there have been key paradigm shifts throughout its history. Scientists triggering the shifts are considered revolutionaries because their ideas changed not only the course and progress of science but also the way humans see and understand the workings of the world's natural systems. Revolutions in scientific thought have fundamentally transformed society's view of the dynamic relationship between nature and humanity.	2.47
sci-400	    Students will complete a scientific research project relevant to their chosen concentration. Weekly seminar meetings address each stage of the research process and will involve faculty-led discussions, student presentations and opportunities for students to receive peer feedback and guidance from faculty advisors.	2.9
sci-410	    An introduction to the study of sound and light from a scientific perspective.  This course examines the properties of waves, which apply to both sound and light, as well as topics specific to each of the two fields.  For sound, these will include hearing, pitch and timbre, resonance, music and musical instruments, the human voice, acoustics, noise, and the human ear.  For light, topics will include colour, reflection and refraction, optical instruments, images, and the human eye.	2.93
sosc-249	This course is intended for students who wish to include an overseas field school in their academic curriculum. The Field school will combine on campus course work with experiential learning in the field. Topics and locations will vary depending on the Instructor teaching the course.	2.23
sosc-300	This course introduces students to concepts involving ecological practice and connectedness within the framework of bio-environmental sustainability. Students move through several core themes such as: introduction to eco-literacy, applied biodiversity, community sustainability, connectivity and unintended consequences, community resilience, protecting natural systems, and initiating transformational change. Through lectures, research, site visits, guest speakers and networking, students will gain valuable knowledge on the principles of ecology, practical field-based skills, connection with communities and community leaders, and the role of business and government in an eco-literate society.	2.49
sosc-320	This course will consider the environment from the perspective of the interrelationships between nature and culture.  The first part of the course will examine the history of ideas of human encounters with the environment, and the second part of the course will identify and critically analyse a number of interpretations and controversies shaping current cultural relationships to the natural world as identified by some of the disciplines of geography, economics, anthropology and sociology.	2.55
sosc-349	This course is intended for students who are participating in a study abroad course overseas such as the Aichi Gakusen Exchange. Students will register in this course before embarking on the study abroad and will be expected to complete specific assignments according to the course outline.	2.47
sosc-401	This course will focus upon case studies that address the presence of the past in contemporary society. The course will be interdisciplinary, and may address such topics as land claims, language rights, globalization, ethnic relations, the role of tradition, the nature of historical and archaeological knowledge, and the forces of political, economic and social change.	2.75
soc-031	    An introduction to the fundamental principles of economics.  Canadian history, government legal system and the development of analytical and interpretive skills.	3.34
soc-041	    A study of economic, political, and social issues in Canada. Students will learn basic skills of social analysis that will enhance their ability to participate in decisions and policies that affect their economic, political and social interests.	3.02
soc-100	    Society is comprised of institutions such as the family, religion, mass media and education, as well as rules, customs, laws and ideologies. Embedded within society are structural inequalities related to gender, class, ethnicity, and colonialism. Using what has been termed the sociological imagination, this course looks at how we are influenced by these aspects of society and how in turn we shape society through our actions.	2.06
soc-101	    With current social conditions in mind, this course analyzes the general development of sociological thought in the 19th and 20th centuries. We will look at a variety of sociological theories and approaches to understanding society (structural functionalism, conflict theory, symbolic interactionism, feminism, and others) and employ these approaches to analyze events of current interest, importance and impact in society.	2.1
soc-200	    Canadian society is a clash of identities. This can be seen in the struggle over LGBTQ rights, the rise of nationalism, racial profiling by police and border agents against people of colour, and the ongoing inequalities faced by Indigenous peoples. Students will look at the implications of these confrontations over identity. They will be challenged to identify the underlying sociological causes of contemporary social, political, and economic events within the settler colonial state of Canada.	2.07
soc-201	    British Columbians face a housing crisis, an epidemic of drug and alcohol addiction, and increasing university tuition. Some low-income people find a means of survival in the sex trade, while Indigenous British Columbians face disproportionate levels of poverty and discrimination. Extreme wealth and poverty sit side-by-side. Despite a reputation as a green city, Vancouver is home to many environmentally destructive industries. This course will make sense of the sociological causes of these problems.	2.13
soc-210	    This course will explore sociological theories and ideas about popular culture from the nineteenth century to the present day. Students will analyze the social context that surrounds the production and consumption of cultural products such as art, music, film, fashion and television.	2.26
soc-211	    More than 20,000 people around the world die every day from hunger, and about 20% of the world's population live on less than $1.25 a day. At the same time, countries like China, Brazil, and India have rapidly industrialized. Tens of millions have moved out of poverty, while trade and tourism have brought us closer together. Students will investigate the social, economic, and political causes of development, underdevelopment, and globalization.	2.2
soc-222	    A sociological study of art and artists in western and non-western societies. The course will relate the various art forms (painting, music, literature) to the social context in which they exist and to their social production; hence it will develop an understanding of the interrelationships between ideas (aesthetic codes), social institutions, cultural politics and political economy. This course is particularly recommended as a complement to SOC. 101 or 223.	2.14
soc-223	    The media have powerfully shaped society since the invention of the printing press. Modern media such as television and the internet affect how we see ourselves and how we relate to one another. This course investigates the relationship between the media and gender and racial inequality, corporate and government power, and citizen activism. Students will also examine the effects of social media on our sense of self and our society.	2.29
soc-250	    This course introduces students to the basics of social science research. Students will learn about the uses and applications of both qualitative and quantitative research methods, including interviewing, digital content analysis, ethnography, and surveys. The course will emphasize the value of decolonized, open and applied research, with student projects oriented towards translating research results into formats that are usable by various groups, organizations, and the public.	2.02
soc-260	    How does one transform the world? One important way is through social movements. This course examines how people come together to engage in collective forms of action with the aim of transforming laws, protesting injustice, and occasionally resisting progressive change. It examines the major theoretical perspectives used by sociology to analyze the strategic moves, successful actions (and occasional defeats) of various social movements, including Indigenous Land Defenders, the Movement for Black Lives, and the 2021-23 Iranian protests.	2.02
soc-300	    This course looks at the construction of consumer culture in contemporary society. Specific attention is paid to the processes by which consumer society is created, reproduced and sustained through the media and advertising. It will examine the processes by which the role of the consumer is created and the impacts and implications for personal identity and society as a whole. This course is situated in the historical and current debates on ideology, political economy and capitalism as well as the social construction perspective.	2.63
soc-301	    Canadian society faces numerous social divisions, such as those between rich and poor, women and men, and Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people. These differences lead to important social outcomes, as in access to health care, seniors' pensions, or the wages we earn in our jobs. The student will use theories and research to understand social inequality in Canada today.	2.61
soc-302	    Scientists agree that human activity is creating a climate crisis. The social effects of this crisis will be experienced differently depending on whether you are rich or poor, or live in the global South or North. Students will look at the role of human society in climate change, in particular at consumerism, the fossil fuel industry, and the role of the media, as well as at possible solutions to the crisis.	2.52
soc-320	    This course examines the technological and social changes that have created our contemporary world of work. It identifies the way that gender, race/ethnicity, age, sexuality, and other factors shape the experience of work, and surveys the role of technology in the relations between owners, managers, and employees. It links these issues with students' own experience of work, and their aspirations for their future careers.	2.51
soc-330	    The City is a hot topic among policy makers, cultural creative, and academics. Urban issues and processes of exclusion including gentrification are linked to globalization and the increasing commodification of everyday life. This course will provide students with the opportunity to examine processes of exclusion in Los Angeles, Paris and Shanghai, but will also use Vancouver as a living laboratory.	2.54
soc-340	    This course looks at the complexities surrounding global migration, including the plight of refugees, factors motivating different types of migration, and the way migrant issues are framed within receiving countries. It takes a critical look at how borders maintain social boundaries and inequalities through processes of exclusion, criminalization, and differential access to rights. It includes an examination of the impact of migration, displacement, and colonial borders on Indigenous peoples.	2.52
soc-341	    Violence can manifest in many ways including as mass shootings, serial killings, child abuse, and intimate terrorism. Its harms can take many forms, including racial, gender, and class-based violence. In this course we examine violence in relation to nonviolence to understand not only the macro and micro sociological dimensions of violence, but also the important work being done to reduce violence in society today. The course will also explore solutions for dealing with both situational violence, such as violent stranger attacks, and systemic violence, such as that produced by legacies of colonialism.	2.56
soc-351	    Sociological tradition argues that empirical social science can be used as a tool to change society for the better.  Postmodern social theories emerged in the 1970s to criticize these mainstream assumptions, about rational science, revolutionary politics, and the grand narrative of progress.  The debate continues, and this course will provide an overview of the social theories involved and the social changes that provide the context for these theories.	2.64
soc-352	    While Karl Marx's ideas seemed to collapse with the fall of communism in the Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc, this course will argue that Marx is better seen as a critic of capitalism rather than a theorist of communism.  His analysis of subjects such as class struggle, the magical lure of commodities, and the spread of globalization remain relevant today.  Indeed, many contemporary thinkers have taken Marx's ideas and reworked them in ways that provide an original and critical view of our society.	2.53
soc-360	    This course examines the sociological dimensions of mental health, focusing on how power, social location, and historical context shape outcomes and experiences. Using the sociological imagination, students will explore how factors such as class, gender, race, and colonial histories influence mental well-being. The course critically engages with the medicalization of mental health and highlights the impacts of structural inequalities and social forces.	2.58
soc-480	    This course enables students to apply their sociological knowledge through community partnerships and work integrated learning experiences, such as Capilano University's partnership with City Studio.	2.83
soc-485	    This individualized course, completed with under the supervision of a sociology faculty member, enables students to apply their sociological knowledge within the community. The forms of learning include work integrated learning arranged by the student with the assistance of their instructor.	2.68
soc-490	    Students will work with a sociology faculty member to guide them in an independent study or research project. Specific course details will be arranged between individual students and faculty members.	2.84
span-100	This is a beginners' course which offers a comprehensive introduction to the Spanish language and culture. Emphasis is placed on grammar and the development of the students' speaking, understanding, reading and writing skills.	1.9
span-101	A continuation of the work of SPAN 100. Must be taken in order to realize first year level college/university Spanish. Recommended also for those who are considering taking SPAN 200 and need review work.	2.06
span-200	A review of Spanish grammar with special emphasis on problematic areas normally encountered by students of the language. The reading, writing and oral fluency of the student will be improved through translations, compositions and extensive conversation practice. Also, the student will be introduced to Hispanic Literature.	2.3
span-201	A continuation of the work of SPAN 200. This course should be taken, wherever possible, in the term following SPAN 200.	2.29
span-300	This course is a continuation of SPAN 201; it is designed for students who want to take their oral, spoken and written abilities to the next level of fluency.  Students will engage in readings, text analysis, translation, writing exercises and oral presentations that develop their knowledge of grammar and vocabulary of Spanish.	2.42
stat-101	An introduction to the language of statistics and some statistical methods, including random variables and their distribution; random sampling, normal distribution, estimation of parameters and testing hypotheses.	1.92
stat-205	A calculus-based study of probability, discrete and continuous random variables, mathematical expectation, moment generating functions, Central Limit Theorem, sampling from normal populations, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing.	2.18
stat-301	The ability to analyze data is an increasingly important skill in many fields of study. This problem-based course introduces common inferential statistics and data analysis techniques to students interested in improving critical thinking about data and evidence-based decision making. Students will explore different data visualization and data analysis techniques in the context of practical problems and students will investigate predictive analysis techniques using statistical software or spreadsheet add-ins.	2.67
stat-305	This course introduces modern tools and techniques used for manipulation, analysis and visualization of large datasets using software. Students will study regression models to make predictions and analyze the relationship between variables. Students will gain hands-on experience visualizing, analyzing, and interpreting large datasets from disciplines such as social sciences, life sciences, physical sciences, economics, education, and engineering.	2.6
stat-310	This course introduces students to models, design and analysis of small to medium-sized experimental data using software. Students will design single-factor and factorial experiments as well as analyze the effect of each factor and the interaction among factors. Statistical methods such as t-tests and ANOVAs will be used to analyze data. Simple and multiple linear regression models will be used to make predictions and analyze relationships between variables. Students will gain hands-on experience applying these techniques to data from disciplines such as social sciences, life sciences, physical sciences, economics, education, and engineering.	2.45
saab-300	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.55
saab-301	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.62
saab-302	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.46
saab-303	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.45
saab-304	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.69
saab-305	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.48
saab-306	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.59
saab-307	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.42
saab-308	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.42
saab-309	The Arts in Applied Behaviour Analysis - Autism program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.47
saba-300	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.46
saba-301	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.56
saba-302	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.67
saba-303	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.48
saba-304	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.6
saba-305	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad , while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.58
saba-306	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.55
saba-307	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.57
saba-308	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.65
saba-309	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.57
saba-500	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.81
saba-501	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.83
saba-502	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.81
saba-503	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.28
saba-504	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.16
saba-505	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.15
saba-506	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.84
saba-507	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.12
saba-508	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	3.4
saba-509	The School of Business has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe. The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits. Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.87
sacm-300	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.51
sacm-301	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.43
sacm-302	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.43
sacm-303	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.61
sacm-304	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.52
sacm-305	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.55
sacm-306	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.65
sacm-307	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.65
sacm-308	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.44
sacm-309	The Communication Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.53
saec-200	The purpose of the study abroad course is to provide students with global experience. The study abroad course gives students the opportunity to study in a foreign culture and to enrich and augment their program of studies. The study abroad course offers the students the opportunity to acquire global competencies that will support their study and/or career development in Canada and abroad.	2.15
saec-201	The purpose of the study abroad course is to provide students with global experience. The study abroad course gives students the opportunity to study in a foreign culture and to enrich and augment their program of studies. The study abroad course offers the students the opportunity to acquire global competencies that will support their study and/or career development in Canada and abroad.	2.12
saec-202	The purpose of the study abroad course is to provide students with global experience. The study abroad course gives students the opportunity to study in a foreign culture and to enrich and augment their program of studies. The study abroad course offers the students the opportunity to acquire global competencies that will support their study and/or career development in Canada and abroad.	2.12
saec-203	The purpose of the study abroad course is to provide students with global experience. The study abroad course gives students the opportunity to study in a foreign culture and to enrich and augment their program of studies. The study abroad course offers the students the opportunity to acquire global competencies that will support their study and/or career development in Canada and abroad.	2.09
saec-204	The purpose of the study abroad course is to provide students with global experience. The study abroad course gives students the opportunity to study in a foreign culture and to enrich and augment their program of studies. The study abroad course offers the students the opportunity to acquire global competencies that will support their study and/or career development in Canada and abroad.	2.14
saec-205	The purpose of the study abroad course is to provide students with global experience. The study abroad course gives students the opportunity to study in a foreign culture and to enrich and augment their program of studies. The study abroad course offers the students the opportunity to acquire global competencies that will support their study and/or career development in Canada and abroad.	2.16
saec-300	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.68
saec-301	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.43
saec-302	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.41
saec-303	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.44
saec-304	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.58
saec-305	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.43
saec-306	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.5
saec-307	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.69
saec-308	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.54
saec-309	The Early Childhood Care  Education program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.45
sahu-200	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Humanities studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.29
sahu-201	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Humanities studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.28
sahu-202	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Humanities studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.08
sahu-203	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Humanities studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.04
sahu-204	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Humanities studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.1
sahu-205	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Humanities studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.2
said-200	The IDEA program has developed exchange partnerships with universities and colleges around the globe.  The program provides you the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning full university credits.  Most partner universities and colleges offer programs in english and in all cases you will gain invaluable academic, business and cultural experiences.	2.06
said-300	The IDEA program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.69
said-301	The IDEA program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.41
said-302	The IDEA program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.5
said-303	The IDEA program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.53
sajs-300	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.6
sajs-301	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.51
sajs-302	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.62
sajs-303	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.5
sajs-304	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.56
sajs-305	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.49
sajs-306	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.55
sajs-307	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.59
sajs-308	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.44
sajs-309	The Jazz Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.45
sals-300	The Legal Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.49
sals-301	The Legal Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.43
sals-302	The Legal Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.51
sals-303	The Legal Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.58
sals-304	The Legal Studies program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.55
sala-300	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.6
sala-301	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.68
sala-302	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.43
sala-303	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.67
sala-304	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.47
sala-305	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.64
sala-306	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.59
sala-307	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.54
sala-308	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.68
sala-309	Capilano University has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.46
samp-300	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.67
samp-301	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.67
samp-302	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.69
samp-303	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.58
samp-304	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.51
samp-305	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.53
samp-306	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences	2.58
samp-307	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences	2.44
samp-308	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.45
samp-309	The Motion Picture Arts program has developed exchange partnerships with institutions around the globe. The program provides students the opportunity to study up to one term abroad, while paying Capilano University tuition fees and earning University credits towards degree completion. Most partner institutions offer programs in English and in all cases students will gain invaluable academic and cultural experiences.	2.55
sass-200	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Social Sciences studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.07
sass-201	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Social Sciences studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.03
sass-202	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Social Sciences studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.11
sass-203	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Social Sciences studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.28
sass-204	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Social Sciences studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.3
sass-205	This course is a field study course. Students will register in this course before they embark on Social Sciences studies as part of a study abroad program at another institution.	2.22
sato-201	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.11
sato-202	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.1
sato-203	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.2
sato-204	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.1
sato-301	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.43
sato-302	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.55
sato-303	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.48
sato-304	These Study Abroad courses in Tourism Management bank credits that allow students to embark upon a variety of international (and national) study experiences with other partner colleges, universities or agencies/organizations. Programs of study can consist of academic courses, practicum, field skills development and/or co-op. Normally, students will be registered in these courses after being accepted in a study abroad program such as a study tour, field school or student exchange partnership.	2.46
tect-130	This course will familiarize students with the equipment and technology found in a working full production range theatre, learning the terminology and developing the skills used in theatrical productions.	2.09
tect-132	Students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances including stage, jazz and music concert based student productions each term. They explore various areas of stage grip responsibilities in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	1.94
tect-134	This course is an introduction to some of the basic elements of theatrical production and design and will help develop skills in scenic painting, properties, carpentry, and theatrical rigging.  Students will be exposed to a wide range of theatrical materials and techniques, as well as background information on design, staging, and working in technical theatre.	1.99
tect-136	This course will familiarize students with the terminology, skills, and equipment necessary to function as a member of a set construction crew.	1.92
tect-138	Students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances, including stage, jazz and music concert-based student productions each term.  They explore various areas of scenic construction in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	2.07
tect-140	Students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances, including stage, jazz and music concert-based student productions each term.  They explore various areas of theatrical production design in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	1.83
tect-210	An introduction to the theory and practice of the duties of the set designer.  By the end of the course, students should be able to successfully create a scenic design from start to finish.	2.0
tect-211	This course will introduce the student to the theory and practice of the duties of senior production personnel.  By the end of the course, they should be familiar with the skills necessary to fulfill the duties required of the Technical Director, Designer and Department Heads in Carpentry.	2.26
tect-212	This course will help develop an understanding of lighting design and instrument operation. Students will receive hands on experience with lighting equipment.	2.24
tect-214	This course is a study of theory, techniques, and practice of creating scenic art for the stage.  Students will explore colour, line, and shape as it relates to theatrical form.	2.04
tect-216	This is a 200 level continuation of a series of courses where students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances, including stage, jazz and music concert-based student productions each term.  They explore various areas of scenic art in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	2.22
tect-218	This is a 200 level continuation of a series of courses where students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances, including stage, jazz and music concert-based student productions each term.  They explore various areas of lighting design in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	2.14
tect-220	This course will familiarize students with sound and audio terminology, skills and equipment used in live and studio sound production.	2.18
tect-222	This course is a study of the theory, techniques, and practice of creating stage properties. Students will work in a variety of mediums as they create various prop elements for different theatrical productions.	2.03
tect-224	This is a 200 level continuation of a series of courses where students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances, including stage, jazz and music concert-based student productions each term.  They explore various areas of senior production responsibilities in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	2.1
tect-226	This is a 200 level continuation of a series of courses where students are creatively involved in projects involving a wide range of professional theatrical and music performances, including stage, jazz and music concert-based student productions each term.  They explore various areas of theatrical properties in experiential learning environments, developing their technical skills to a good- to - excellent level.	2.01
tect-374	This is part one of the Theatre Institute program focusing on production and stage management. Students will attend a tutorial production seminar, and complete their first and second projects. (The second project may be done in the second term.)	2.48
tect-375	This is part two of the Theatre Institute program focusing on production and stage management. Students will attend a tutorial production seminar, and complete their second (if not completed in the previous term) and third projects.	2.48
txtl-120	This course explores the role of the costume dyer in film and theatre. Foundational skills for the dyeing of textiles are taught. Dye selections and processes specific to costumes are introduced and explored. Students will gain an understanding of the use of colour in the costume context from a visual narrative as well as a technical point of view. Safe use of dyes and chemicals and safe studio set-up is emphasized. Students will work with current film and theatre stock as applicable.	2.07
txtl-121	This course focuses on processes and techniques used to age and distress costumes and continues the exploration of dyeing processes specific to costume aging. Students will build upon their understanding of the use of costume colour and aging as visual narrative and as part of production design.	2.04
txtl-220	This course considers the application of textile arts techniques to the creation of costumes for stage and screen. A wide range of techniques and materials will be discussed. Specific techniques will be explored in class with exercises and projects pertinent to their application to costume creation.	2.02
thtr-130	This is a workshop course designed to introduce students with little to no acting experience to key elements of the art of acting for the stage and screen. Students will explore the craft through a variety of practical exercises, including voice and movement exercises and script work. Students will apply approaches taught in class through a variety of techniques, including written assignments, scene work, and in-class performances. This course is open to all CapU students.	1.99
thtr-131	This is an introductory workshop course in which students will explore techniques and skills of improvisation. Students will investigate foundational principles of improvisation, including spontaneity and narrative structure, through theatre games, exercises and performances. This course is open to all CapU students.	1.97
thtr-152	Students will work in assigned positions in all areas of costume production and management for theatre department productions. Working in a mentored situation, students will be directly involved in producing the costumes for one or more theatre department mainstage productions. Instruction will take the form of practical demonstrations, and supervised work on assigned projects.	2.1
thtr-153	Students will work in assigned positions in all areas of costume production and management for theatre department productions. Working in a mentored situation, students will be directly involved in producing the costumes for one or more theatre department mainstage productions. Instruction will take the form of practical demonstrations, and supervised work on assigned projects.	1.92
thtr-160	This course provides an introduction to the basic elements of technical production and design. Students will receive instruction in a wide range of topics in technical theatre.	2.0
thtr-266	Following THTR 153, students have opportunities to work in more and different positions in the costuming for the Theatre Department main stage shows, and therefore expand their knowledge base in the production of large scale live theatrical productions.	2.04
thtr-267	Following THTR 266, students have opportunities to work in more and different positions in the costuming of the Theatre Department main stage shows, and therefore expand their knowledge base in the production of large scale live theatrical productions.	2.18
inst-370	This is part one of the Theatre Institute program focusing on directing. Students will attend a tutorial seminar, direct scenes, and complete their first project as an assistant director or director.	2.41
inst-371	This is part two of the Theatre Institute program focusing on directing. Students will attend a tutorial seminar, direct scenes, and complete their second project as an assistant director or director.	2.49
tour-104	This course introduces students to marine tourism's current issues and concepts. Students visit several regional marine tourism sites and hear from industry practitioners, aiding them in forming a deeper understanding of local to global connections. Using case studies, research, and readings, they consider responsible stewardship regarding marine resources within the context of tourism development. The course will be divided into three main topic areas: 1. Marine ecology identification and interpretation; 2. Business best practices in marine tourism; and 3. Stewardship and sustainability issues associated with marine tourism.	1.82
tour-111	Tourism and hospitality have been experiencing global growth and are one of the fastest growing economic sectors. Students will explore the current industry theory and application while discovering its interrelationship in global tourism, its economic, social, environmental and cultural impacts. Students are introduced to the history, common vocabulary, guest motivators, destination planning, evolving issues and trends that impact the industry including Indigenous tourism, technology and community-based tourism.	1.83
tour-112	This course focuses on the essentials of marketing, including key marketing concepts, methods of analysis, and the marketing process. These topics are primarily explored in the context of developing sound strategies to manage profitable customer relationships in the tourism and hospitality industries. The course incorporates such topics as environmental and market analysis, the elements of the marketing mix (product, pricing, promotion, and distribution), and corresponding strategies.	1.95
tour-113	Human resource issues, job analysis, recruitment, interviewing, orientation, training and development, performance management, legislation, and labour-management relations.	2.03
tour-114	This course examines the way in which individuals function effectively in organizations by examining behaviour from individual, small group, inter-group, and organizational perspectives. Topics include: communication models, strategies for effective leadership, motivational techniques, group dynamics and behaviour, stress, organizational structure, change, and team building. Students will learn how to become effective members of groups by working together towards common goals.	2.05
tour-116	Designed to provide future entrepreneurs and managers in the field of tourism an introductory review of the basic accounting and planning skills required for small business operations.  This course will also cover basic financial statement analysis for the purpose of providing information to meet the needs of investors, owners and management.	2.03
tour-131	With today's intense global competition for tourists combined with the subjective and tangible nature of the tourism experience, operations and destinations are now compelled to analytically and methodically develop appropriate tourism products. This course will examine how to effectively develop, package and position tourism products for success in the market-place.	2.01
tour-133	This course will provide career counselling, job search coaching, feedback, tips, tools and techniques for tourism educational and career development through one-on-one meetings, class workshops, industry forums, and networking opportunities.  Course work will focus on defining and developing skills necessary for the job search process. The course will provide tools and strategies to prepare students to research, apply for, and secure an appropriate placement. Confidence in interview skills and presentation skills will be strengthened through workshop activities.  Students will develop a personal career plan to help in identifying workplace opportunities consistent with defined career and educational goals.	1.93
tour-140	The student co-op work experience is designed to provide a period of full-time, productive, paid employment in industry or government. The co-op work experience enables the student to apply classroom theory and skills to employment practices. It provides the student, faculty, and the employer with a measuring device for assessing the student's approach to full-time employment.	2.09
tour-142	This course introduces students to gastronomy tourism, its impacts and growth opportunities as a vehicle of cultural expression and national identity. The students will investigate various global case studies that tackle planning and promotion of gastronomic experiences through Indigenous, local and national initiatives. Learners will also be able to create authentic gastronomic experiences such as food trails, tours and festivals that reflect understanding of terroir, culture and partnerships and align with tourism strategies and market needs.	2.05
tour-145	This course will provide tools and strategies to prepare students to research, apply for, and secure an appropriate work placement. Students will develop the skills and tools necessary for the job search process along with developing professional competencies, attitudes and confidence in interview and networking situations. While the work experience is local, the tools and strategies will focus on working within a globalized industry. Students will develop a personal career plan and learning objectives to help in identifying workplace opportunities consistent with defined career and educational goals.	1.94
tour-149	This course is designed to provide students with the necessary computer skills to communicate effectively in a professional environment. The course will cover creating complex MS-Word documents, building advanced Excel spreadsheets as well as designing and presenting PowerPoint presentations.	1.84
tour-150	Students will integrate academic knowledge with a work experience designed to provide a period of part-time or full-time, productive employment in the tourism  hospitality industry. Students will bring a global perspective to their local workplace. This is a supervised work experience that enables the faculty and the employer with a measuring device for assessing the student's approach to employment.	1.94
tour-151	The overall purpose of this course is to place emphasis on the single most important aspect of business within the tourism industry, and that is service management, in particular as it pertains to the customer. The course follows a sequence necessary for an industry leader to design, develop and implement a service culture that will support and enhance an organization's ability to provide a continual high level of service excellence.	1.97
tour-152	This course is designed to give students an understanding of the basic skills and concepts necessary to develop, finance, plan, and contract for a special event.	1.98
tour-154	This course is designed to give students an understanding of the basic skills and concepts necessary to create a professional marketing plan and sponsorship package for a special event.	1.95
tour-157	This course is designed to give students an understanding of the basic skills and concepts necessary to completely manage all technical and non-technical aspects of special event production.	2.03
tour-159	This course introduces the concepts of geography and its relationship to tourism, specifically to natural environments of destination resorts. The course highlights spatial distribution of destination resort environments in a global and local context, the evolution of destination resort landscapes, models and typologies of resort development environments in mountain and coastal settings, the evolution and dynamics of destination resort communities, community governance and management and the implications on tourism management and development, tourism impacts on the natural and cultural environment, First Nation land rights and destination resort environments, Parks and park management in destination resort setting, and other topical issues affecting the geography of the resort.	1.97
tour-160	This course introduces the key concepts, language, and issues facing the tourism industry, specifically identifying trends, market profiles and demographic factors for leisure and business travel. Key industry sectors and regional products in BC, tourism's role in community development, social impacts of tourism, transportation, communication, and legal issues in tourism are all addressed. Students utilize general tourism concepts and adapt them to destination environments including examining the roles of the destination marketing organization, destination management, recreational programming, resort design and trends within resort destinations.	2.09
tour-162	This course covers the theoretical application of food service management. Students develop competencies in management practices, menu making, purchasing, payroll systems and merchandising and promotional techniques. Through discussion and examination, students will gain a thorough understanding of the many aspects of food and beverage management from service operations to production. Students learn to plan, organize and cater functions through integrated teamwork and participation.	1.99
tour-165	The student co-op work experience is designed to provide a period of full-time productive paid employment in industry or government. The co-op work experience enables the student to apply classroom theory and skills to employment practices. It provides the student, faculty and the employer with a measuring device for assessing the student's approach to full-time employment.	1.98
tour-170	This course is an introduction to mountain bike park/trail design and building. Students learn the foundations of trail design and building, including partnerships involved, volunteer management, the philosophy of trail and park development, and the principles of sustainable design and building. In addition, students learn to properly handle relevant tools, and design and build a basic technical feature. Taking a 40-hour first aid course is strongly recommended prior to enrolling in this course.	1.99
tour-172	This is an advanced course on mountain bike park/trail design and building. It builds on the material covered in TOUR 170. Students learn more advanced techniques for designing a park or trail and create a comprehensive proposal for a complete trail or park. Students build a section of trail and learn the different concepts around trail maintenance. Sustainable principles are applied throughout. Taking a 40-hour first aid course is strongly recommended prior to enrolling in this course.	1.99
tour-190	This course focuses on increasing the student's knowledge of Canada as a tourism destination, developing awareness of the primary tourism destinations and the visitor experiences they offer. Students will gain awareness of existing and developing tourism destinations and products in Canada, and improve their understanding of traveller expectations, market needs, and challenges and opportunities facing Canada's tourism industry. Students will be introduced to tourism businesses and associations across Canada.	1.9
tour-191	This course explores global destinations for touristic purposes by examining traveller motivations and expectations, tourism patterns, country	2.02
tour-192	This course explores global destinations for touristic purposes by examining traveller motivations and expectations, tourism patterns, country and city iconic attractions, reasons why destinations are popular, world events that affect the tourism location, authentic perspectives of the local people (both Indigenous and non-Indigenous) and local religions which provide unique experiences. Using the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Traffic Conference Areas and Sub-Areas as a breakdown of global regions, students will use applied assignments, research, quizzes and presentations to develop the essential knowledge required to sell and promote popular and emerging tourist destinations in Asia, Oceania, and the South Pacific Islands.	1.89
tour-200	Revenue Management is a systematic process to attain Pricing and Revenue Optimization (PRO), by selling the right product to the right person at the right time for the right price. Students will be introduced to Differential and Dynamic Pricing theories and practical strategies used by tourism suppliers to enhance and maximize PRO while planning and balancing demand to control capacity spoilage and spillage in order to reduce perished opportunities, all the while maintaining good product value for consumers.	2.14
tour-201	This course introduces tourism technologies which impact operations, distribution, tourist consumption and usage experiences. It provides an understanding and appreciation of the functions and importance of Information  Communications Technology (ICT), Management Information Systems (MIS) and Big Data Technology in Tourism. Topics are specifically related to E-Tourism, M-Tourism and V-Tourism, covering: Airlines' Global Distribution System (GDS); Airline Computer Reservation Systems (CRS), Airport Single Token Smart Path technology; Hotels' Property Management System (PMS), Restaurant Management System (RMS); Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS); Entertainment, Attractions and Gaming technologies; AR, VR and MR as well as Destination Integrated Computer Information Reservation Management System (DICIRMS).	2.04
tour-205	Selling is everybody's business, and it is an essential skill to master at any personal or business setting. With the diverse and unique nature of the tourism and hospitality product, students will gain confidence in pitching carefully curated solutions to various types of clients. This skill-based course introduces personal selling techniques and communication strategies that enable the creation of meaningful client relationships and long-lasting success in a competitive industry. Throughout this course, students will follow a guided simulation that helps them build capacity at every stage of the sales cycle.	2.15
tour-206	Directed Studies is a student driven course intended for students that demonstrate clear interest and capabilities in a selected topic in a subject area that is not included in any other available course. The purpose of this course is for students to gain relevant experience, and to make an easier transition into the workforce. Major emphasis of this experience is to allow students to put existing tourism skills into practice while learning new sector-related skills and knowledge in the context of their applied topic.	2.15
tour-208	This course is designed to familiarize students with the concepts of risk management and legal liability as it applies to the tourism industry. Students will be introduced to areas of risk, methods of identifying risk, and risk management systems. They will learn about important challenges facing tourism operations. Students will be familiarized with methods of reducing risk. They will also be introduced to the rights and liabilities of different parties relative to their relationships within the tourism industry.	2.04
tour-210	This course is an integration course of terms one and two Destination Resort Management courses. The course will focus on methods of applying strategic management utilizing the entire cross section of skills that have been developed in previous terms of study, such as human resources, marketing, accounting and communications. Using a basic business case model, students will be provided with an opportunity to integrate a selection of operational and business issues to address key opportunities and challenges facing a resort operation.	2.07
tour-216	This course focuses on business planning, control, and financial decision making in a tourism management environment, and the concepts are applicable to both large and small organizations.  This course builds on concepts learned in Tour 116.  Students apply financial knowledge to analyze current information, project future results, and support tourism business decisions.	2.07
tour-220	This course will cover all aspects of event management and event marketing: choosing the right event, designing a business (event) plan, event/cause marketing, sponsor proposals, managing the pre-event, event day(s) management, and post event activities. The course also acknowledges Indigenous ways and values that can be incorporated into events and event management. Students will design a new special event and prepare a business plan for that event. The course will also include case studies from existing events.	2.04
tour-221	Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) contribute significantly to hotel revenues. In this course, learners will be able to identify	2.29
tour-225	This course familiarizes students with developing, owning and operating their own businesses in tourism and outdoor recreation. Students will be introduced to entrepreneurship concepts, principles and processes as they apply specifically to the tourism industry. Students will gain an understanding of the business planning process by generating innovative ideas for small to medium sized tourism enterprises, evaluating those ideas, preparing formal business plans, and pitching their plans to the class.	2.02
tour-227	This course offers a conceptual overview of cultural, heritage and arts-based tourism, with emphasis on understanding and appreciating various forms of a destination's tourism product, both locally and internationally. The course will review concepts of product development and community planning, with a theme of community development. Concepts such as authenticity, commodification, representation, interpretation, identity, and sense of place will be discussed. BC and international examples will be used, along with experiential learning.	2.0
tour-232	This course introduces the role and processes of planning and its significance in tourism development using a decolonial lens. The course builds knowledge of key elements of tourism planning, planning processes and their application to tourism, critical issues in tourism planning, and the roles of sovereign Indigenous host Nations and stakeholders in tourism planning. The course is designed to help students practice authentic consultation and respectful collaboration with Indigenous host Nations, Indigenous peoples, the significance of tourism planning and how it can lead to different and sustainable outcomes for individuals, economies, and the environment. Special focus is placed on using a decolonial lens for sustainable tourism management and the role of planning at a community level using case studies from around the world.	2.23
tour-233	This course will deal with differences between nations and cultures, and the ways in which these differences impact on the delivery of tourism services and programs to an international client base. The course is aimed at increasing participants' awareness of and sensitivity toward their own and other cultures and in increasing knowledge and skills competence in cross-cultural settings as they relate to tourism. Through the presentation of information on communication theory and culture in general the link is made to cross-cultural communication, first in a global way, then to specific countries.	2.01
tour-234	This course introduces students to the concepts of responsible tourism management, community-based tourism, and adventure travel in a global economy. Situating their knowledge in a global context, students will visit several regional sites to learn the history of the area, including impacts on indigenous and ethnic minority communities. Students exam the organization's responsible tourism, stakeholder engagement, and visitor management practices at the local level. Case studies, research and journals are used to bring international perspectives in best practices and lessons learned.	2.28
tour-250	This course introduces students to the decisions tourism and hospitality businesses need to make in order to run efficient, competitive, lean and profitable operations. In general, this course presents the fundamental issues in operations supply chain management.	2.27
tour-251	This course provides students with a broad understanding of the Food and Beverage division in hotel and resort environments with exposure to both front and back of house areas. Students will focus on the decisions required in order to run efficient, competitive, lean and profitable operations.	2.16
tour-252	Known as the heartbeat of a hotel and resort, this course provides students with a 360-degree view looking at the decisions required in order to run efficient, competitive, lean and profitable operations. Understanding of both front of house (concierge, front desk and guest services) and back of house (housekeeping, sales and marketing) and the integral link between them is examined.	2.18
tour-253	The course is an introduction to the operation of various types of adventure businesses, programs and activities. Students will address decisions relevant to small- to medium-sized adventure tourism businesses including the day-to-day tasks, roles and responsibilities tied to operating adventure businesses. They will explore topics that specifically affect the running of adventure operations.	2.08
tour-255	This course focuses on theoretical and applied management concepts for leading an adventure business. Students will develop an awareness of the role of management functions in adventure tourism businesses today through the study of the current business environment. The focus will be on the four primary management functions of planning, organizing, leading and controlling. Students will learn how to lead small group meetings within a formal context.	2.19
tour-256	Recreation programming is designing, staging, and delivering leisure opportunities by facilitating social interactions. This course gives students the knowledge to design, stage and evaluate programming activities to create extraordinary participant experiences, within the context of the recreation and tourism industries.	2.25
tour-259	Robotics and artificial intelligence (AI) are changing the nature of the industry. Innovations in this field will be explored and students will examine more closely the impacts on tourism and hospitality from a business and customer perspective. Additional new and emerging technology topics are selected at each course offering in order to ensure the most relevant disruptors and innovations are presented.	2.01
tour-261	Students will be introduced to the basic concepts of financial management including accounting, cash management, budgeting, forecasting and payroll, in a destination resort environment.	2.17
tour-270	This course will be offered from time-to-time to give students the opportunity to examine more closely some aspect of the tourism industry.  The course will introduce tourism topics to explore and engage in issues or trends affecting a sector of the industry or a place in the world.  Normally such a course will take advantage of some specific expertise such as a faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.25
tour-275	Tourism and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals gives students the opportunity to apply tourism concepts in sustainable development to address sustainability challenges in a global context and learn how both business and personal actions relate to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, this course is designed to build ecoliteracy, helping students acquire in-depth knowledge of their home environment with the premise that forming a connection to the natural world leads to deeper understanding and caring, and leading ultimately towards environmental and social issue actions at the local to global levels.	2.07
tour-280	Influenced by the Experience and Transformation Economies, seasoned travelers are demanding interest-based niche tourism experiences. Special Interest Tourism (SIT): Thana, Pop-Culture, Genealogy, Medical, Ethno and more, emerged to satisfy travelers' complex travel motivations, need for diversity, differentiation and individualism. Emergence of macro and micro niches from changing tourist demographics are also popularizing existing and new SIT destinations with exponential growth. This course explores the types, opportunities, rationales and costs for destinations to engage in SIT.	2.22
tour-306	Directed Studies is a student driven course intended for students that demonstrate clear interest and capabilities in a selected topic in a subject area that is not included in any other available course. The purpose of this course is for students to gain relevant experience, and to make an easier transition into the workforce. Major emphasis of this experience is to allow students to put existing tourism skills into practice while learning new sector-related skills and knowledge in the context of their applied topic.	2.49
tour-307	In this course, students will explore the climate change challenge facing the global tourism industry. They will examine key trends and issues impacting the industry; discuss technological and policy solutions for addressing this challenge; and evaluate some initiatives undertaken by industry to be in front of this crucial issue. Students will also learn to be an agent for change in meeting the climate change challenge.	2.65
tour-312	This course gives the students the opportunity to participate in the major activities of integrated marketing communications (IMC) and to develop the knowledge and skills necessary to create and execute marketing communications campaigns in the Tourism and Hospitality industry. Students will gain experience with IMC strategies and tactics for building brand equity using advertising, publicity, personal selling, consumer and trade promotion, online and social network marketing, and relationship marketing.	2.68
tour-316	The course will focus on financial concepts and tools to enable the tourism professional to deal with financial elements of the business in terms of planning and controlling financial operations and using financial information to evaluate business effectiveness. In addition, the course will cover elements of corporate finance, business valuation, and managing working capital.	2.46
tour-321	Advanced skills in organizational leadership, including leadership approaches, motivation, understanding of organizational culture, and management of working relationships.	2.46
tour-325	The focus of this tourism service-industry course is on using financial information for decision-making. This course provides an overview of financial and managerial accounting principles and techniques, including the managerial use of financial statements and other financial information for decision-making purposes. Students will explore principles and techniques used in financial accounting including common managerial accounting techniques such as budgeting, cost-volume-profit analysis and capital budgeting.	2.64
tour-326	The international nature of tourism and hospitality means that cross-cultural understanding and effective communications is essential for success in the industry. This course develops a deep understanding of cultural norms for various groups, effective communication methods, conflict resolution and negotiation skills with employees, clients and customers from different cultures, and leadership and negotiation skills with communities in which tourism operations exist.	2.7
tour-327	Ability to use market research skills needed for the effective management of tourism operations, including survey techniques.	2.63
tour-328	Students will learn and apply destination marketing and management knowledge in an international context. This will involve understanding the impact of changing market conditions and competitive pressures and being able to develop strategies and plans to capitalize on opportunities. International case studies will provide the students with a broad overview of current examples of effective destination marketing and management.	2.68
tour-331	This course provides students with the experience to study overseas where they can develop the skills to describe the geographical, historical and economic context of tourism of the destinations under consideration.  Students will learn to analyze product and destination development in relation to regional culture and target markets, and to assess the benefits and impacts of tourism on economic and social development.  Research skills will be applied to the evaluation of the future of tourism and development in the region, and students will gain practice in the development of a code of conduct to maintain the sustainability of the tourism industry in the region.	2.53
tour-335	The course focuses on the formal decision making process called strategic management. The course will help students understand how to manage a variety of internal and external variables to determine a strategic objective and achieve related outcomes. The primary course objective is to acquaint students with the process of developing a business strategy and how to implement that strategy. This will require integration of policy and planning, human resources, leadership accounting, and marketing skills and knowledge for specific goals.	2.41
tour-341	Students will learn about various processes of product development in a wide array of contexts. Special emphasis will be placed on designing and delivering engaging tourist experiences and evaluating opportunities in different locations and destination areas. Students will develop skills in conceptualizing products across a range of industry sectors, conducting pre-feasibility analyses, and identifying determinants of success. A key activity will be to generate a product experience for all class members to participate in and evaluate.	2.55
tour-342	This course prepares students to become agents of an overall sustainable transformation of the tourism industry. Resource productivity, nature connection, valuing natural capital, and growth versus progress will be explored. Students will be exposed to examples of community stewardship in action, review ethics and values of stewardship, and apply principles of sustainability.	2.61
tour-344	This comparative approach to eco-tourism in different countries will highlight issues of sustainability, planning, socio-cultural issues, and economic demand.	2.4
tour-351	This course examines and evaluates consumer behaviour in the tourism industry.  Students will learn key theoretical perspectives and will analyse the relationship between tourist motivation and particular tourism products.  They will be able to explain the reasons for variations between market sectors, and will become conversant with recent developments in tourist psychology and tourism consumer behaviour research.	2.46
tour-356	This course addresses events with an adventure sport focus as a tool for destination development. Students will study an overview of winter and summer events at a local and international level. Adventure Sport Event management will be a key focus of the course and will include planning, organizing and operating the event. Topics will include risk assessment and management, land access issues, sponsorship and funding models, use of adventure events in community development, and stakeholder engagement. Students may be required to volunteer at an adventure sports event in conjunction with the course delivery.	2.52
tour-360	This course will enhance students' understanding of global issues as they relate to tourism through a theme-based lens. These contemporary issues will provide students with a greater awareness, understanding, and appreciation of how transformative and impactful these global forces can be to tourism. Elements of the environment, economy, society, as well as noteworthy aspects of tourism governance and technology will be closely examined in this course, specifically in the context of their impacts to tourist destinations, its stakeholders, and tourists.	2.59
tour-364	This course examines the culinary sense of place, in relation to cultural identity and food sovereignty, while tackling issues of access and equity. Learners will develop a key philosophy that places small-scale, community-based, and locally owned food and drink production at its helm, using Indigenous knowledge and practices, land-based learning and interdisciplinary approaches. Students will engage with organizations across the culinary tourism value chain to learn about food production and consumption that are socially informed and environmentally motivated to protect regional agriculture and promote cultural foodways in alignment with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals.	2.61
tour-370	This course will be offered from time-to-time to give students the opportunity to examine more closely some aspect of the tourism industry. The course will introduce tourism topics to explore and engage in issues or trends affecting a sector of the industry or a place in the world. Normally such a course will take advantage of some specific expertise such as a faculty exchange or overseas offering.	2.47
tour-371	This course focuses on the effects of individual and group behaviour on organizational processes and outcomes in a service organization, and will prepare students for success in their work practicum. Significant emphasis will be placed on interpersonal skills important in supporting high-level service management in a North American workplace culture from a front-line to managerial level. Service approaches in different international contexts will be compared, and human resource training approaches for application in supervisory and managerial levels in different organizational contexts will be addressed.	2.43
tour-372	This course provides tools, resources and helpful strategies to prepare students to research, apply for, secure and successfully complete an appropriate 8- week paid/non-paid Canadian work placement. Students will engage in self-assessment, create an action plan, survey the B.C. job market and articulate their competitive advantages. The course addresses the specific processes involved in finding a challenging and rewarding practicum position in alignment with individual career goals. Students will engage in a period of productive employment in the Canadian workplace applying classroom theory and skills to the workplace.	2.52
tour-373	Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) are a key part of hospitality operations and contribute significantly to global destinations. This course introduces students to a significant tourism sector and the role it plays in generating economic growth, social prosperity and environmental stewardship. The course also acknowledges Indigenous ways and values that can be incorporated into contemporary events and conventions. Students will examine several topics including market characteristics and segmentation, industry conditions, leading competitors, future trends and sustainability principals.	2.64
tour-374	This course examines the current trends and issues facing the global hospitality industry. Students will engage with current research, ownership structures, hotel rating systems, technologies, the experience economy, and cultural standards to communicate and decipher the strategies required to manage in this complex international field.	2.45
tour-400	This course provides students with the skill and knowledge needed for a business to maximize growth and manage inventory. Emphasis is placed on sales as a revenue management tool and the use of a systematic process designed to optimize revenue. Through case studies students will analyze and develop pricing strategies for tourism products and services.	2.89
tour-404	Focusing on the use of new technologies in travel distribution, this course addresses the history, development, operations and management of traditional and evolving channels including retail travel agents, wholesalers, tour operators, specialty channels such as meeting planners and incentive houses, tourism associations, and destination marketing organizations.  Three main components of distribution channels will be addressed: suppliers, connectivity systems, and intermediaries.	2.96
tour-406	Directed Studies is a student driven course intended for students that demonstrate clear interest and capabilities in a selected topic in a subject area that is not included in any other available course. The purpose of this course is for students to gain relevant experience, and to make an easier transition into the workforce. Major emphasis of this experience is to allow students to put existing tourism skills into practice while learning new sector-related skills and knowledge in the context of their applied topic.	2.63
tour-416	This course is case study based that focuses on Food and Beverage and Rooms Division operations with finance, sales and human resources in order to be more efficient and competitive in meeting the needs of their customers. Students synthesize their learning to recommend solutions to hotel issues.	2.95
tour-423	This course illustrates the role that policy and planning issues and initiatives play in the tourism industry. Students will learn to apply tourism policy and planning knowledge and implementation skills. Local, regional, national and international case studies will provide students with an overview of current examples of tourism policy and planning.	2.63
tour-435	This course will provide students with an opportunity to apply concepts and skills learned from diverse courses through a team-based project. By solving a real problem for a client organization, students will integrate previous course content and project management techniques to deliver a high quality solution. The project may include deliverables for one or more functional areas including Strategic Planning, Marketing, Human Resources and Product Development. Wherever possible, students will be working on student teams and project topics that correspond to their individual career path aspirations.	2.77
tour-440	Applied Research in Tourism is a capstone course for the Bachelor of Tourism Management. Students will develop effective research skills to address issues or challenges in tourism, either from an academic or business perspective. Participants will learn how their own perspectives can alter the way that a research topic is approached and the outcomes that will be produced. Students will develop skills in applied research, gain advanced knowledge on specific topics, and generate a research paper that demonstrates their research capacity and specific knowledge.	2.88
tour-450	This course will focus on the strategic decision-making approaches that tourism firms need in order to run efficient, competitive, lean, and profitable operations. Through case studies and applied assignments, students will deepen their knowledge of the standards, design, and analysis of cost controls in a tourism business.	2.92
tour-451	Building on content from previous operations courses students continue to develop knowledge of operations through the core divisions. This management focused course looks at operations from a strategic standpoint and provides a realistic look at the operations of each department. The course will focus on activities, analysis, review and discussion of hotel operations to better develop your business, management, and leadership experience.	2.96
tour-455	Adventure tourism can be a vehicle for community economic development. Globally, we see cases where adventure tourism has contributed to solving a wide range of issues including: environmental conservation, employment, poverty, self-governance and human rights. This course will explore the role of community, industry partners, public sector, Indigenous partnerships and non-governmental stakeholders in the planning and development of adventure tourism as part of local community development. This course will investigate the nature of adventure tourism taking a case study approach in examining several communities engaged in adventure tourism and the tourism development models being employed in those communities.	2.94
tour-456	This course deepens students' knowledge of land use issues relating to operating tourism businesses in the context of various systems of land ownership types including Indigenous rights, title and land use, crown land and parks and protected areas. Students analyze and examine how these issues impact tourism businesses from an operational perspective. Case studies provide the opportunity for students to engage with complex situations and generate progressive solutions.	2.92
tour-457	This course focuses on increasing the student's knowledge of legal issues facing adventure tourism businesses, sports organizers, recreationalists, spectators, and recreation facilities. Students will develop knowledge of how various areas of the law impacts the adventure tourism industry, and will include both civil and criminal matters, administrative law, and risk management. By the end of this course students should be able to analyze and understand the impact of applicable Canadian Laws on adventure tourism business ventures. Students will be introduced to relevant B.C. and Federal statute law as well as applicable judge-made law. The rights and potential liabilities of the various parties in adventure tourism business relationships will also be discussed.	2.82
tour-470	This course is designed to enable students to demonstrate, through practical application, e-marketing techniques and strategies focusing on those that are key to effectively communicating a destination's brand and engaging with customers. It examines digital marketing strategy, implementation and executional considerations within the broader scope of an organization that has multiple goals.	2.83
tour-471	This course provides students with technical knowledge and skills to manage the Human Resources function in a tourism and hospitality management organization, carrying out generalist duties. It also enables students to assist the director of a Human Resources Department in a larger operation in a more specialized role, or to carry out the HR duties of a line manager.	2.82
tour-480	This course provides students the opportunity to work in the tourism and hospitality industry in a setting outside of Canada. Students build upon prior learning and work experience, applying classroom theory and skills to international employment practices. Students develop inter-cultural fluency, self-awareness, and professional behaviours as exemplified by tourism employers in an international setting while building a global network of peers.	2.81
uof-098	    This course primes the quantitative reasoning and problem solving skills necessary for post-secondary success. Students will have the opportunity to review and master the skills and concepts in basic mathematics.	2.87
uof-099	    This course primes the critical reading, thinking, and writing skills necessary for post-secondary success. Students will reflect on, critique and write about readings and spoken material, relating and comparing what they see and hear to their knowledge of human experience. The course employs a critical pedagogy and delivery that integrates talking circles and dialogues, Indigenous story-tellers, and collaborative and experiential learning activities supported by Indigenous guest speakers and Elders.	3.03
ussd-105	This highly interactive course teaches skills essential to a successful university experience, with a special focus on reading skills, thinking strategies and working in teams. The reading component includes textbook comprehension and retention, vocabulary development, study skills and critical thinking. Students also learn time-management, goal setting, note taking, memory techniques, test-taking and presentation skills.	2.04
ussd-110	Participants learn and practice flexible and efficient reading skills at the college level.  Strategies for increasing speed, improving vocabulary, reading comprehension, memory, and critical thinking are also included.	1.89
uss-100	    This course has two versions: USS 100 and USS 100 (Indigenous). Both are highly interactive, and teach skills essential to successful university life, including time-management, goal-setting, note taking, self-care, study skills, reading strategies, test-taking, team work and presentation skills. USS 100 (Indigenous) is taught through an Indigenous lens, weaving Indigenous knowledge, skills and stories into the academic skills.	2.05
visn-010	This course is designed for students who have difficulty with the comprehension, retention, evaluation or analysis required for success with their general academic program. An assessment is followed by a program to strengthen any under-developed abilities. Students will develop their comprehension, memory and problem solving at the basic, foundational level, and will learn concepts underlying the mathematics and language arts curriculum.	3.27
visn-012	This course is designed for students who have difficulty with more advanced comprehension, retention, evaluation or analysis required for success with their general academic program. Students will strengthen their cognitive abilities in the areas of comprehension, memory and problem solving, and will learn concepts underlying the mathematics and language arts curriculum.	3.46
visn-020	This course is designed for students who have physically-based perceptual problems affecting their academic success.  For example, while the eyes may see, the brain may not necessarily understand what is being looked at.  An assessment is undertaken and students are given an individualized program of activities.  The activities are progressive in nature.  Foundation level activities are undertaken in this course.	3.05
visn-022	This course involves more advanced perceptual skills development activities. Like VISN 020, the prerequisite course, this course is designed for students who have physically-based perceptual problems affecting their academic success.  For example, while the eyes may see, the brain may not necessarily understand what is being looked at.  An assessment is undertaken and students are given an individualized program of activities.  Advanced level activities are undertaken in this course.	3.14
visn-030	This course is designed for students who have auditory processing problems affecting their ability to succeed with their general academic curriculum.  These problems are identified through the VISN 010 assessment and through observation in VISN 020.  This course provides a range of auditory processing exercises geared to strengthening auditory processing abilities.	3.35
visn-040	This course is designed for students who need direct instruction with the fundamental concepts needed to benefit from language arts instruction.  Many students gain the concepts through language arts instruction itself, but many do not. It presents basic linguistic concepts in as concrete a form as possible. It is not a substitute for language arts instruction. This course provides the framework for learning detailed linguistic standards, procedures, and techniques.	3.32
visn-050	This course is designed for students who begin to flounder when the math curriculum turns from memorization to the broader application of concepts and the understanding of more abstract math. The focus is on developing the cognitive foundations needed and the acquisition of the concepts underlying math skills, not on arithmetic or math skills themselves. The approach is specifically designed for non-semantic learners, but semantic learners can benefit as well.	2.81
visn-060	This course is designed for students who have memory problems.  Memory is the ability to retrieve previously learned or cognized information. Good cognition does not necessarily mean good memory. Cognition is the ability to take in information, whereas memory is the ability to bring back information.  Memory is often assumed to be present, but if it is not, it can cause significant frustrations to both students and instructors. This course is designed to develop memory.	3.16
visn-070	This course is not intended as reading instruction. It is designed for those people who have not succeeded with learning to read. Reading instruction rests on presuppositions about students? perceptual skills, cognitive abilities, and conceptual repertoire.  This course is designed to help meet these presuppositions so students can be successful with reading instruction.	3.41
ides-111	In this course students are introduced to the digital technologies and media used in the design and advertising industries. Students gain technical knowledge related to the set-up and maintenance of digital platforms and tools, and begin to work with industry standard image-making and file conversion software.	1.89
ides-131	This course introduces students to the origins of illustration through an integration of history, theory, and practice. Lectures review notable artists and their work, and illuminate the influence of society on visual expression from the Renaissance until the mid-20th century. Applied projects are based on lecture content and related mediums and techniques, including principles of light, form, and colour.	1.89
ides-132	This course provides a grounding in the development of illustration as a profession through the integration of history, theory, and practice. Lectures review notable illustrators and their work, and the influence of economic and historical milestones from the Golden Age until the present day. Applied projects are based on lecture content and the use mediums, techniques, voice, and storytelling in illustration.	1.86
ides-133	This course provides an introduction to line, form, and light through an exploration of drawing and photography. Students develop skills in the use of drawing tools and a digital SLR (single lens reflex) camera. Principles of perception, observation, proportion, and perspective are covered through drawing and photography of man-made and natural objects, including the human figure.	1.81
ides-141	This course examines the evolution of visual communication from paleolithic cave paintings to the mid-20th century through an integration of history, theory and practice. The course covers the origins of written communication and its subsequent role in the development of typography and the design and advertising professions. Applied projects explore the articulation of historical styles and aesthetics.	1.92
ides-142	This course examines graphic design and typography from the mid-20th century to the present day through an integration of history, theory, and practice. Students are introduced to modernist, post-modernist, and information age movements as an aesthetic and philosophical basis of modern graphic design and advertising. Applied projects, including the integration of concept with design principles, are integral to the course.	2.09
ides-151	This course introduces students to human-centred principles and practices of User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI) design. Students will explore the industry and agile workflows used to create omnichannel interactions and applications. This course explores the fundamentals of shaping an interactive experience such as problem framing, information architecture, and interface design. Students will develop a life-long learning mindset that encourages them to continually observe, question and explore.	1.89
ides-211	This course introduces students to professional page layout software for print and digital publishing. Students gain knowledge in the use of industry-standard software and associated file formats, learn to manage fonts and colour systems, and prepare files for production. Students need a working knowledge of the computer desktop environment, file management, and vector/image software to take this course.	2.13
ides-235	This course introduces students to illustration as visual communication. Students learn the process of completing an illustration project through concept, sketches, client approval, and finished work, and begin to develop style and voice. Skills are developed using various mediums and techniques including contemporary painting and life drawing.	2.13
ides-236	This course focuses on the development of illustration styles for visual communication using voice and storytelling. Students are assigned targeted briefs and create conceptual solutions using moderately complex subject matter. The roles of illustrator and art director as part of a creative team are emphasized in the process of creating illustration for advertising, design, and publishing.	2.23
ides-237	This course introduces digital illustration techniques for static and dynamic media. Students gain an understanding of the strengths of digital technology in contemporary conceptual illustration and motion graphics. Technical skills using image-making and motion graphics software are introduced through a variety of in-class exercises and projects with targeted briefs.	2.1
ides-243	This course introduces students to the fields of communication design, information design, and advertising, and to the role of design in business and marketing. Students understand the design process by analyzing design problems, working through creative briefs, creating appropriate design solutions, and developing rationales. Instruction in design-related software supports the course.	2.23
ides-244	This course focuses on communication design practice and its role in promoting sustainability. Students are introduced to ways in which design solutions can engage strategies, processes and materials that value environmental, cultural, social and economic responsibility (GDC Sustainable Design Principles, 2009). Projects emphasize collaboration, the discovery process, and the development of platform-neutral solutions. Instruction in design-related software supports the course.	2.09
ides-247	This course provides students with a thorough understanding of typography as a core element of visual communication. The evolution of type from the mid-1400s to the present day is discussed in the context of the technology of the time and its influence on letterforms. Students gain a grounding in the principles of best typographic practice as they apply to print and digital mediums. Instruction in design-related software supports the course.	2.07
ides-249	This course introduces students to the field of brand identity by following the process of a branding assignment as it would typically be handled in a design studio or advertising agency. Students are guided through the process from creative brief through strategic framework to logo development and design of a variety of marketing materials. Presentations are conducted in a simulated real world environment.	2.28
ides-252	This course develops essential skills to support a career as a digital visual designer, focusing on interactive media for the web. Students will learn responsive web design, basic HTML and CSS, and software for prototyping digital interfaces. The curriculum includes applied projects for real-world digital communication scenarios, along with studying critical design patterns and digital accessibility best practices. Students will be introduced to the responsible use of Artificial Intelligence as a tool in the production of digital experiences, to help them understand the ethical implications of AI in the creative process.	2.21
ides-313	This course builds skills in front-end technologies for digital media production. The emphasis is on user interface design and navigation for different types of screen technologies. It is important for students to already have a working knowledge of web authoring tools.	2.61
ides-320	This team-taught, modular course provides students with an introduction to aspects of visual communication, including drawing, photography, and communication design, framed around a current Indigenous theme. Through a study of storytelling, objective observation, image composition, and visual hierarchy, students learn how to articulate ideas, artifacts and knowledge in a visually coherent fashion. The course is designed for students with an interest in, but not necessarily prior immersion in, the visual arts.	2.47
ides-340	Students select from a wide variety of full-day workshops covering specialized topics in visual communication. Some workshops support skill development specific to a concentration (e.g. interactive design, illustration, or branding). All workshops provide tools and resources for self-learning, online support, and individualized faculty feedback on workshop projects.	2.63
ides-341	Students select from a wide variety of full-day workshops covering specialized topics in visual communication (topics differ from those in Visual Communication Workshops I). Some workshops support skill development specific to a concentration (e.g. interactive design, illustration, or branding). All workshops provide tools and resources for self-learning, online support, and individualized faculty feedback on workshop projects.	2.67
ides-360	Thematically structured around the concept of design for good, this course introduces a variety of creative briefs, research methods, leadership skills, and tools that model best practices. Students work in groups to deconstruct the briefs, build on the research, identify tasks, map workflow, explore and define problem-solving strategies, and build solutions and case studies. Students will work in their choice of visual communication areas.	2.6
ides-361	Thematically structured around the concept of design for good, this course introduces a variety of creative briefs, research methods, leadership skills, and tools that model best practices. Students work in groups to deconstruct the briefs, build on the research, identify tasks, map workflow, explore and define problem-solving strategies, and build solutions and case studies. Students concentrate on illustration for project deliverables.	2.61
ides-362	Thematically structured around the concept of design for good, this course introduces a variety of creative briefs, research methods, leadership skills, and tools that model best practices. Students work in groups to deconstruct the briefs, build on the research, identify tasks, map workflow, explore and define problem-solving strategies, and build solutions and case studies. Students concentrate on branding for project deliverables.	2.47
ides-363	Thematically structured around the concept of design for good, this course introduces a variety of creative briefs, research methods, leadership skills, and tools that model best practices. Students work in groups to deconstruct the briefs, build on the research, identify tasks, map workflow, explore and define problem-solving strategies, and build solutions and case studies. Students concentrate on interactive design for project deliverables.	2.49
ides-380	Using the process modeled in Visual Communication Studio I, students collaborate to identify areas of research that could benefit from design thinking expertise. The entire design process from problem identification to final solution is followed and recorded in case studies. Group work is complemented with focused individual study in a choice of visual communication subjects. The course is supported by research conducted in Design Thinking and Research II.	2.44
ides-381	Using the process modeled in Visual Communication Studio I, students collaborate to identify areas of research that could benefit from design thinking expertise. The entire design process from problem identification to final solution is followed and recorded in case studies. Group work is complemented with focused individual study in illustration. The course is supported by research conducted in Design Thinking and Research II.	2.64
ides-382	Using the process modeled in Visual Communication Studio I, students collaborate to identify areas of research that could benefit from design thinking expertise. The entire design process from problem identification to final solution is followed and recorded in case studies. Group work is complemented with focused individual study in branding. The course is supported by research conducted in Design Thinking and Research II.	2.68
ides-383	Using the process modeled in Visual Communication Studio I, students collaborate to identify areas of research that could benefit from design thinking expertise. The entire design process from problem identification to final solution is followed and recorded in case studies. Group work is complemented with focused individual study in interactive design. The course is supported by research conducted in Design Thinking and Research II.	2.63
ides-414	This course provides students with the opportunity to engage in professional development through the completion of a digital portfolio. Through hands-on guidance, students will curate and refine their best work to showcase their unique talents and creativity. With a focus on industry best practices for portfolio presentation, this course empowers participants to craft a polished, impactful portfolio that opens doors to rewarding opportunities in the visual communications field.	2.54
ides-490	This work-integrated learning course provides an opportunity for students to apply classroom theory to employment practices. Students will gain visual communication related work experience through one or a combination of experiences including practicum placement, professional development (PD), or completion of special projects. Students are responsible for securing their own practicum placement, prior to the first week of the course, with the support, consultation, and approval of the assigned faculty supervisor/Instructor.	2.67
vfx-100	    In this course, students will be introduced to the basic processes and procedures involved in the production of visual effects for the film industry.  This course will emphasize the application of motion picture production methods and techniques and their relationship to visual effects.  An understanding of the fundamental roles and equipment involved in motion picture production will be covered.	1.84
vfx-101	    In this course, students will focus on professional production procedures used in the visual effects industry. Students will continue to develop the technical understanding of motion picture production methods and techniques and their relationship to visual effects.  Students will learn about working on a film set, the roles of various crew members on set, work flow on set, and appropriate professional etiquette and behaviour. Motion picture language and vocabulary will be introduced.  Students will learn about the use of technical equipment on set related to visual effects, including cameras, lenses and lighting.	1.91
vfx-110	    In this course, students will learn and practise the concepts necessary to successfully combine film and computer graphics elements.  Students will be introduced to the concepts of blue and green screen removal and keying, travelling mattes and colour correction.  The course will also cover the technical aspects of multi layer digital image creation and composition.  An analysis of the production pipeline used in professional motion picture platforms will be implemented in student projects.	1.91
vfx-111	    In this course, students will learn advanced digital compositing techniques including the importance of shot breakdowns for effective compositing, how and when to use mattes, incorporating 2D and 3D visual elements, colour space and grading, motion tracking and rotoscoping techniques.	1.88
vfx-120	    In this course, students will learn to create production ready hard surface and organic 3D assets for use in visual effects productions.  An introduction to 3D image creation, including modelling, texturing, lighting and rendering, will allow students to create production quality assets.  An emphasis on research, design and project planning will help students understand the role of an artist in creating assets in a timely and professional manner.	2.03
vfx-121	    In this course, students will further develop their skills for creating 3D models and assets for visual effects. The creation of props and set extensions which match live action plates will be studied. Students will practice advanced modelling, texturing, lighting and rendering techniques in order to match live action plates.	2.01
vfx-130	    In this course, students will be introduced to the process of animating objects and effects in 3D space. This course will cover animation techniques used in the creation of visual effects shots in film projects. This course will focus on the use of realistic animated effects in film projects and their creation using advanced 3D animation software.	1.82
vfx-131	    In this course, students will continue to develop skills in animating particles, fluids and dynamics simulations. Using advanced 3D software, students will create natural phenomena such as fire, explosions, lightning, dust, rain, snow and water effects.  Students will also learn to use dynamic simulations such as cloth, hair and object destruction.	1.96
vfx-140	    In this course, students will be introduced to the art and science of digital matte painting.  An overview of traditional versus digital matte painting techniques will be covered.  Students will use digital tools to create matte paintings which match the atmosphere and lighting of film footage. This course will emphasize the use of digital painting and photo montage techniques to create matte paintings suitable for use as background plates in a film production.	2.03
vfx-200	    In this course, students will learn advanced techniques for creating 3D elements for a visual effect shot; how to create complex materials, match on set lighting and how to utilize advanced rendering technology effectively in the creation of visual effects shots.	2.02
vfx-205	    In this course, students will plan and create visual effects shots in collaboration with an outside film production. This course will introduce students to the role of the visual effects artist in a film production, from analyzing and breaking down scripts to creating completed visual effects shot(s). Students will identify the keys to quality control in from onset production to integrated digital elements. The effects shots created during the course will serve as a basis for creating an effective visual effects demo reel.	2.12
vfx-210	    This course emphasizes developing advanced compositing skills with a focus on various pipeline workflows and shot finishing. Students will practice advanced compositing techniques using plates from actual film projects. Students will also learn stereo compositing techniques and workflows.	2.29
vfx-215	    In this co-taught course, students will be introduced to the fundamentals of scripting in a production environment while continuing to iterate and advance their compositing, effects, and 3D modeling, shading and lighting techniques. Self-reliance, problem solving, critical analysis and finding answers in available resources will be emphasized.	2.28
vfx-220	    This course will help students prepare a professional portfolio and demo reel. Students will learn to critique their own work, while learning about professional presentation practices. A final portfolio presentation to industry will provide the opportunity for a professional critique of each student's portfolio before graduation. Students will plan and organize a grad show to showcase their talents to prospective industry recruiters and executives.	2.22
vfx-230	    This course will prepare students to work in a professional industry environment. Students will complete a project for a client, or complete work experience in a local studio (based on studio availability). Students will be instructed in professional standards, ethics and practices. Students will be evaluated by their clients in the areas of work ethic, project realization and completion, professionalism and communication.	2.06
vfx-231	    In this course, students will continue to develop and refine the process of simulating particles, fluids, dynamic objects and cloth in 3D space. This course will focus on the use of realistic simulated effects in film projects and their creation using advanced 3D software.	2.15
vfx-240	    In this course, students will continue to develop and refine their digital matte painting and masking skills using digital tools. An emphasis on creating hand painted assets supported by photo texturing in the creation of convincing mattes suitable for use as film plates.	2.15
wlp-124	    This course is a certification level course for industry as designated by Avalanche Canada - Avalanche Skills Training course Level 1. In this course students learn how to recognize avalanche terrain, understand the avalanche forecast, plan trips, and perform a companion rescue. Upon successful completion students will receive Avalanche Canada certification Level 1.	1.99
wlp-125	    Students will develop backcountry touring skills including track setting, winter camp craft, hazard avoidance, skiing techniques and route planning, weather observations and avalanche safety. Students that achieve the required competency level may achieve Avalanche Skills Training Level 2 Certification from the Canadian Avalanche Association.	2.02
wlp-126	    Students will further develop their skills in navigation with map and compass, wilderness travel, survival skills, and mountain sense. Students will also develop a proficiency with electronic navigation apps, such as Gaia, and be able to implement a route plan while using this technology to provide a quality experience for themselves and others. Upon successful completion students will receive the Outdoor Council of Canada Map, Navigation and Compass certifications.	1.91
wlp-127	    This course is designed for the experienced backpacker with little or no rope skills. Skills in basic rock climbing, rope management, crevasse rescue, snow and glacier travel and ice climbing will be developed.	2.03
wlp-128	    A technical course for non-climbers, emphasizing technique development through practical application of field skills. Students will gain competency in outdoor top rope climbing and following a lead climber. Skill sets include anchor construction, rope management, rappelling, climbing and movement techniques, and hazard management.	1.81
wlp-129	    An intermediate level of skill development of rock climbing techniques including rock rescue and introduction to lead climbing.	2.02
wlp-130	    This course emphasizes the practical aspects of technical rock rescue.	1.85
wlp-131	    This is an introductory course in Nordic skiing that develops competency in equipment selection and use, waxing, diagonal stride, poling, turns, skating, and telemark techniques. Students that achieve the required competency level may achieve Level 1 Instructor Certification from the Canadian Association of Nordic Ski Instructors.	2.04
wlp-132	    Students will develop and demonstrate competency in skiing and teaching diagonal stride, snow plow turns, double poling, off-set skate, and intermediate telemark techniques.  Students that achieve the required competency level may achieve Level 2 Instructor Certification from the Canadian Association of Nordic Ski Instructors.	1.97
wlp-133	    A course in developing leadership skills in lake water canoeing; includes canoe history in Canada, equipment, canoe safety and leadership, tandem and solo rescues, and canoe-tripping standards and practice. Competent students may achieve industry certification for instruction in lake-water canoeing.	1.89
wlp-134	    Tandem and solo moving water canoeing skills are developed in this course. Content includes theory, strokes, manoeuvres, and rescues. Competent students may achieve industry certification in moving water canoeing.	2.09
wlp-135	    Includes equipment, strokes for oar and paddle boats, raft manoeuvring, and river reading. Competent students may achieve industry certification in rafting.	2.08
wlp-136	    This intensive course is designed to prepare students for the rafting industry. Students that achieve the required competency level may achieve raft guide certification.	2.04
wlp-137	    This course focuses on each student's ability to make safe leadership decisions, manage groups on the ocean, choose campsites, facilitate launches, and provide appropriate client care and instruction. Students may also earn certification and technical skills as part of the Sea Kayak Guides Alliance of BC, Outdoor Council of Canada (OCC) and/or Paddle Canada curricula, if industry certificate requirements are met	2.04
wlp-138	    This course focuses on each student's ability to make safe leadership decisions, perform surf landings and launches, and provide a high level of client care and instruction. Students may achieve industry certification(s) in sea kayaking (Paddle Canada Skills Level 2 and/or Sea Kayak Guides Alliance of BC Assistant Overnight Guide certifications), if industry certification requirements are met.	1.94
wlp-139	    This clinic introduces students to river kayaking equipment, safety procedures, strokes and rolling techniques. Skills will be introduced on flat water and will progress to river paddling.	1.99
wlp-140	    This intensive course is designed to provide students with a solid foundation in river rescue. Students that achieve the required competency level  may receive Swiftwater Rescue Technician Certification from Rescue 3 International.	1.84
wlp-145	    The course provides an awareness of safe guiding practices for leading mountain biking rides and competence at the beginner to intermediate levels. Topics discussed include site selection, teaching materials, demos, progression, skill analysis, biomechanics, teaching points, common errors and corrections, safety tips, and environmental variables.	1.89
wlp-147	    This course introduces students to river kayaking equipment, safety procedures, strokes and rolling techniques.	2.06
wlp-148	    A course developing leadership skills in snowboarding, including a comprehensive overview of the sport as it relates to snowboard instruction, guiding and leadership.	1.81
wlp-149	    This course will review and deepen the trip planning event cycle and offer students effective group management techniques for longer outdoor trips. Students will further develop their skills in navigation with map and compass, wilderness travel, survival skills, and mountain sense. Students will also develop a proficiency with electronic navigation apps, such as Gaia, and be able to implement a route plan while using this technology to provide a quality experience for themselves and others. Students will learn how to lead longer trips in low-risk terrain classes relevant to their activity. Students who have earned Field Leader Hiking in REC 148 may also earn the following Outdoor Council of Canada (OCC) certifications, if industry certificate requirements are met: Field Leader Overnight (Hiking), Go Outside (Map), Go Outside (Compass) certifications.	2.09
wlp-151	    This course is designed to enable outdoor leaders to learn interpretation techniques regarding experiential teaching methods. These techniques enable students to interpret the surrounding wilderness environment including weather and the night sky.	2.05
wlp-152	    The student will gain practical experience necessary to work effectively in an adventure industry business. The student will have an opportunity to work at a level comparable to that of a non-Work Experience employee of the organization. The student will integrate and consolidate theory and skills developed during the Wilderness Leadership Certificate program.	2.01
wlp-153	    This course is designed to increase the students' understanding of leadership theories and practices, and communication in teams. Students study literature on leadership, communication, and group dynamics. The course will provide a set of engaging, hands-on experiences for developing the capabilities for effective individual, and team leadership. This course will assist participants in improving their capability to lead others in a diversity of roles.	1.84
wlp-164	    This course is designed to develop winter field leaders with effective personal and group management techniques for cold environments. This course will also provide an intermediate proficiency in the building of winter shelters and camp craft for a winter environment. Students may also earn certification and technical skills as part of the Outdoor Council of Canada (OCC) Field Leader (Winter) curriculum if industry certificate requirements are met.	1.98
wlp-166	    Building on skills, knowledge, and certifications earned in previous courses students will be on an extended alpine mountain field excursion in summer and fall like conditions, including glacier travel. The course provides ample opportunity for students to deepen their interpersonal skills, work within a team and engage in a support role to the leader on a mountain traverse.	1.82
wlp-183	    This course allows students to attend outdoor/adventure industry courses and obtain recognized outdoor/adventure industry certifications. Course topics may include guiding, instruction, leadership, or technical proficiency in a variety of outdoor pursuits, including rock climbing, kayaking, rafting, backpacking, rope rescue, sailing, and mountaineering.	2.1
wlp-184	    This course allows students to work towards obtaining an outdoor recreation industry certification in an area currently not offered in other skills courses within the Outdoor Recreation Management Diploma program. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but may include skills such as guiding, instruction and leadership, or technical proficiency in a variety of outdoor pursuits such as rock climbing, rafting, rope rescue, sailing, and mountaineering. The program convenor evaluates the industry certification to determine suitability.	1.99
wlp-185	    This course allows students to work towards obtaining a second outdoor recreation industry certification in an area not currently offered in other skills courses within the Outdoor Recreation Management Diploma program. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but may include skills such as guiding, instruction and leadership, or technical proficiency in a variety of outdoor pursuits such as rock climbing, rafting, rope rescue, sailing, and mountaineering. The program convenor evaluates the industry certification to determine suitability.	2.07
wlp-224	    This course integrates the Avalanche Canada AST 2 curriculum that includes the daily process for decision making and interpreting avalanche problems with a similar approach used by avalanche professionals. Over seven overnight field days skills are expanded from the AST 1 course, and WLP 164, providing more advanced decision-making framework for travelling in avalanche terrain, leadership, snow science and weather. Upon successful completion students will be eligible to receive Avalanche Canada certification in Avalanche Skills Training Level 2.	2.19
wgst-100	This course provides an introduction to the discipline of Womens Studies. It will explore local, Indigenous and transnational Womens movements, and introduce students to the history and diversity of feminist thought and practice. The course will emphasize intersectional and decolonial feminist approaches that provide insight into the relationship between identity, positionality, place, and power relations.	1.89
wgst-111	This course explores key ideas, theories and debates in critical studies of gender and sex, including how different disciplines construct these concepts. Disciplinary perspectives covered may include Psychology, Sociology, Anthropology, History, Geography, Indigenous Studies, Biology, Sport Studies, Literary and Law. By applying intersectionality  a foundational analytical framework in Womens and Gender Studies  students will gain a better understanding of the interrelationship of gender with factors like race, ethnicity, Indigeneity, sexuality, class, ability, and other markers of identity or difference.	1.88
wgst-204	This course provides an intersectional examination of representations of gender in literature. Learners will focus on the ways that literary texts discursively shape, respond to, reinforce, and/or challenge existing gender norms. Readings, which may include both fiction and non-fiction, will span writing by authors who are prominent, emerging and/or historically excluded.	2.23
wgst-208	This course engages learners with historical and contemporary topics about how Canadian laws govern and interact with gender and sexuality. Starting from the position that law is one of the key contexts for individual, social, and structural negotiations of gender, gender identities, sexualities, and womanhood, we consider how law both produces and regulates experiences, rights, personhood, and gendered selves. Using critical, feminist, intersectional, anticolonial, and socio-legal frameworks, we examine criminalized gender identities and gendered practices.	2.04
wgst-210	This course introduces concepts, theories, and issues in the psychology of gender, gender roles, and gender relations. Gender research in psychology is examined in relation to social and cultural contexts, with a specific focus on bodies, mental health, gender and psychiatric diagnoses, socialization, relationships, personality, and identity. The course explores intersectional, Indigenous and anticolonial perspectives on gender, and students will examine how ideas about gender are shaped by specific social, cultural, and historical contexts.	2.11
wgst-213	This course examines the role of gender in politics and public policy through critical, intersectional, feminist, anticolonial, and sociopolitical frameworks. Learners will examine the role that political institutions and public policies play in creating, challenging, and overcoming gender-based inequality. While Canadian political and policy-based discourses are the core focus, this course also engages with gender, politics, and public policy on a global scale.	2.01
wgst-215	This course uses an intersectional feminist perspective to examine how societal notions of gender shape our built environments and colour our perceptions of the world around us. Gender differences are apparent in how we live, work, travel, and explore. Drawing on geographical topics ranging from our everyday home and work experiences to the trafficking of people across borders, this course explores gender roles and patterns from around the world and their spatial implications in cultures.	2.15
wgst-222	This course provides an introduction to the study of gender and culture from a social science perspective. The course will engage critical, intersectional and/or decolonial social sciences literatures to explore gender relations, ideologies, and lived experiences in cultural contexts. Comparative studies of gender across cultures and theories, and critical examinations of the representations of gender comprise the methods of examination of core course topics.	2.27
wgst-224	This course examines gender as a theoretical concept, social construction, and category of analysis for understanding differing experiences of health. Explorations of gender and health will be understood through contextual, intersectional, rights-based, and anticolonial frameworks and includes topics such as: public health and body politics; reproductive health and justice; experiences of health for LGBTQ2S+ people; mental health and Mad Studies; and creating gender-informed responses to health and social/public policy.	2.07
wgst-230	Focusing on Europe and North America, this course examines the historical representation of women in art as well as the particular challenges and accomplishments of women artists.  Students will investigate the ways that visual imagery has both upheld and critiqued gender differences and the impact feminist inquiry has had on the theories and practices of art and art history.	2.26
wgst-240	This course explores the ways that cultural notions of gender and sex are influenced and transformed by science and technology. Using an intersectional and interdisciplinary lens, this course examines how gender is constructed in various science and technology discourses and practices from past to present.	2.07
wgst-250	This course applies an intersectional feminist analysis to the study of gender in popular culture. Drawing on a variety of media which may include advertising, digital media (including film and series), comic books, video games, popular fiction, podcasts and magazines, students will examine the representation of diverse genders. The course will also explore how popular culture often functions to reinforce social norms concerning gender roles and identities, while also acting as sites of resistance through challenging gender norms.	2.22
wgst-302	This class takes a broad approach to exploring gender, work, and labour. Learners explore when and why certain kinds of labour not considered real work and how particular moments have shifted the intersections of gender, work, and labour. Specific attention is paid to whose labour counts, with a focus on workers who are often ignored, made invisible, informalized, or excluded. This course also considers resistance efforts and counter-movements on local, national, and international levels.	2.46
wgst-320	Using Sara Ahmed's concept of the feminist killjoy, this course examines various theoretical and practical dimensions of social justice, equity, and diversity work. Informed by feminist theory, gender studies, critical race theory, and anti-colonial theories, this course will explore intersectional feminist activism at odds with racism, sexism and colonialism in institutional life. Pragmatic explorations will include an analysis of the physical and emotional intensities of embodying and performing killjoy tactics, and killjoy strategies for sustainable self and community care.	2.46
wgst-330	Using an anti-oppression lens, this course explores how gender, race, and colonial oppression intersects and impact the lives of racialized women. The course examines the complexities of colonialism, imperialism, orientalism, and systemic racism in the present day. The course will open spaces for anti-racist and decolonial forms of learning by including oral storytelling, art-based activism, and land and community-based learning.	2.48
wgst-335	This course examines social, cultural, and political constructions of masculinity in the past and present. The course considers the interplay between the dominant expression of a hegemonic masculinity and the co-existence and persistence of multiple masculinities that often elude it or resist it. Course readings will engage with emerging forms of (cis, trans*, new) masculinities, situating them against the background of new developments in popular feminist and academic feminist critique.	2.67
wgst-345	This course offers an exploration of gender in relation to the human rights framework that acknowledges the intersections of power among gender and race, ethnicity, class, and sexualities, among other identities. Learners delve into various facets of the gendered nature of human rights on a global scale, including core standards and principles, citizenship, international conflict and inequity, the study of war and peace, international organizations and law, globalization, migration, sustainable development, social movements, and asylum.	2.67
wgst-347	This course will examine current forms of penal governance in Canadian federal and provincial women's prisons. Through the lens of gender, this course theorizes the complexity of carceral power and examines the shifting and complex nature of women's penal governance. While the functions of prison - to contain, to segregate and to punish - remain consistent, the meaning and content of women's penal governance has changed over time. We examine how penal governance and the way that people experience incarceration is gendered, classed and racialized and hybrid forms of power and knowledge have informed prison strategies.	2.68
wgst-360	This course explores contemporary issues in women's and gender studies, including current debates and tensions in the discipline. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but could include, for example, examinations of Indigenous feminisms; trans health; focused topics on migration and settlement; education policy and gender identity; gender, sex and sexuality in sport; and other current topics in critical, intersectional and/or decolonial feminist scholarship and activism.	2.55
wgst-401	This course explores contemporary issues in queer studies from an interdisciplinary perspective. Drawing from a range of academic and community-based knowledge, the course will engage theory, history, and various analytic methods to explore queer histories, theories, cultures and debates, including Indigenous Two-Spirit identities.	2.67
wmpi-100	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	1.88
wmpi-150	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	1.94
wmpi-200	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	2.24
wmpi-250	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	2.16
wmpi-300	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	2.49
wmpi-350	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	2.66
wmpi-400	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	2.62
wmpi-450	This course is designed to provide students a personalized learning environment to acquire the skills and the knowledge necessary to enable them to successfully perform on their instrument.	2.53
